
What’s gone with that boy, I wonder?
What you been doing in there?
What is that truck?
Hang the boy, can’t I never learn anything?
Ain’t he played me tricks enough like that for me to be looking out for him by this time?
But my goodness, he never plays them alike, two days, and how is a body to know what’s coming?
Said she:
“Tom, it was middling warm in school, warn’t it?
Powerful warm, warn’t it?
Didn’t you want to go in a-swimming, Tom?
See?
Then she had a new inspiration:
“Tom, you didn’t have to undo your shirt collar where I sewed it, to pump on your head, did you?
Then Tom said:
“What’s your name?
Well why don’t you?
Oh, you think you’re mighty smart, don’t you?
Well why don’t you do it?
You think you’re some, now, don’t you?
Well why don’t you do it then?
What do you keep saying you will for?
Why don’t you do it?
What do I care for your big brother?
Well, you said you’d do it—why don’t you do it?
Ben said:
“Hello, old chap, you got to work, hey?
Don’t you wish you could?
But of course you’d druther work—wouldn’t you?
Tom contemplated the boy a bit, and said:
“What do you call work?
Why, ain’t that work?
Oh come, now, you don’t mean to let on that you like it?
Like it?
Does a boy get a chance to whitewash a fence every day?
No—is that so?
Now don’t you see how I’m fixed?
He said: “Mayn’t I go and play now, aunt?
What, a’ready?
How much have you done?
The potent palm was uplifted to strike again when Tom cried out:
“Hold on, now, what ’er you belting me for?
Ah, how would she feel then?
He wondered if she would pity him if she knew?
Would she cry, and wish that she had a right to put her arms around his neck and comfort him?
Or would she turn coldly away like all the hollow world?
Was the sacred presence there?
And thus she would see him when she looked out upon the glad morning, and oh would she drop one little tear upon his poor, lifeless form, would she heave one little sigh to see a bright young life so rudely blighted, so untimely cut down?
For they shall—for they shall—a—a—shall mourn—a—a—blessed are they that shall—they that—a—they that shall mourn, for they shall—a—shall what?
Why don’t you tell me, Mary?
What do you want to be so mean for?
At the door Tom dropped back a step and accosted a Sunday-dressed comrade:
“Say, Billy, got a yaller ticket?
What’ll you take for her?
What’ll you give?
How many of my readers would have the industry and application to memorize two thousand verses, even for a Dore Bible?
By jings, don’t you wish you was Jeff?
But you’ve another one I daresay, and you’ll tell it to me, won’t you?
Won’t you tell us the names of the first two that were appointed?
He said to himself, it is not possible that the boy can answer the simplest question—why did the Judge ask him?
His voice began on a medium key and climbed steadily up till it reached a certain point, where it bore with strong emphasis upon the topmost word and then plunged down as if from a spring-board:
Shall I be car-ri-ed toe the skies, on flow’ry beds of ease,
Whilst others fight to win the prize, and sail thro’ blood-y seas?
What is the matter, Tom?
Why, what’s the matter, Tom?
How long you been this way?
Tom, why didn’t you wake me sooner?
Tom, what is the matter?
When I’m gone—”
“Oh, Tom, you ain’t dying, are you?
Tom, what’s the matter with you?
Oh, auntie, I’m—”
“What’s the matter with you—what is the matter with you, child?
What’s the matter with your tooth?
Oh, you don’t, don’t you?
So all this row was because you thought you’d get to stay home from school and go a-fishing?
What’s that you got?
Where’d you get him?
What did you give?
Where’d you get the blue ticket?
Say—what is dead cats good for, Huck?
Good for?
Is that so?
What is it?
You wouldn’t, wouldn’t you?
D’you ever try it?
Well, what of it?
In the daytime?
With his face to the stump?
Did he say anything?
Have you?
What’s your way?
But say—how do you cure ’em with dead cats?
D’you ever try it, Huck?
How did he know she was a-witching him?
Say, Hucky, when you going to try the cat?
Didn’t they get him Saturday night?
How could their charms work till midnight?
Lemme go with you?
Will you meow?
Say—what’s that?
Where’d you get him?
What’ll you take for him?
Well, why don’t you?
At last he said:
“Is it genuwyne?
Now, sir, why are you late again, as usual?
The master said:
“You—you did what?
Oh, will you?
When?
Do you go home to dinner?
What’s your name?
What’s yours?
You call me Tom, will you?
You won’t tell anybody at all?
Ever, as long as you live?
Look here, Joe Harper, whose is that tick?
He said:
“Do you love rats?
Do you?
Was you ever at a circus?
Say, Becky, was you ever engaged?
What’s that?
Would you like to?
What is it like?
Like?
Kiss?
What do you kiss for?
Everybody?
Do you remember what I wrote on the slate?
What was it?
Shall I tell you?
But you mustn’t ever tell anybody—will you, Tom?
Now you won’t, will you?
Will you?
Becky, won’t you say something?
Tom got out his chiefest jewel, a brass knob from the top of an andiron, and passed it around her so that she could see it, and said:
“Please, Becky, won’t you take it?
What had he done?
What if he turned his back, now, and disappeared mysteriously?
Who comes here into Sherwood Forest without my pass?
Who art thou that dares to hold such language?
Then art thou indeed that famous outlaw?
Why don’t you fall?
Why don’t you fall yourself?
So he said in a whisper:
“Hucky, do you believe the dead people like it for us to be here?
It’s awful solemn like, ain’t it?
Then Tom whispered:
“Say, Hucky—do you reckon Hoss Williams hears us talking?
What is it, Tom?
Didn’t you hear it?
What’ll we do?
Think they’ll see us?
What is it?
Can you pray?
What is it, Huck?
No—’tain’t so, is it?
What kin they be up to?
Look here, what does this mean?
Did you think I’d forget?
Lord, how is this, Joe?
What did you do it for?
Tell me, Joe—honest, now, old feller—did I do it?
Don’t you remember?
You won’t tell, will you, Joe?
By and by their pulses slowed down, and Tom whispered:
“Huckleberry, what do you reckon’ll come of this?
Do you though?
Tom thought a while, then he said:
“Who’ll tell?
We?
What are you talking about?
S’pose something happened and Injun Joe didn’t hang?
How can he tell?
What’s the reason he don’t know it?
D’you reckon he could see anything?
D’you reckon he knowed anything?
After another reflective silence, Tom said:
“Hucky, you sure you can keep mum?
What’s verdigrease?
Tom,” whispered Huckleberry, “does this keep us from ever telling—always?
We’d drop down dead—don’t you know that?
Which of us does he mean?
Who does he mean?
Did he before?
Now who can he mean?
What’s that?
Where ’bouts is it, Huck?
Hucky, do you das’t to go if I lead?
Didn’t Gracie Miller fall in the kitchen fire and burn herself terrible the very next Saturday?
Why had he not been called—persecuted till he was up, as usual?
Who?
Who?
Who’s accused you?
He saw Injun Joe, and exclaimed:
“Oh, Injun Joe, you promised me you’d never—”
“Is that your knife?
Why didn’t you leave?
What did you want to come here for?
What you got on your mind, Tom?
’ Tell what?
What is it you’ll tell?
Tom, what on earth ails that cat?
What did make him act so?
They do, do they?
You do?
Now, sir, what did you want to treat that poor dumb beast so, for?
What has that got to do with it?
Could it be possible that she was not aware that he was there?
He was a forsaken, friendless boy, he said; nobody loved him; when they found out what they had driven him to, perhaps they would be sorry; he had tried to do right and get along, but they would not let him; since nothing would do them but to be rid of him, let it be so; and let them blame him for the consequences—why shouldn’t they?
What right had the friendless to complain?
Then a guarded voice said:
“Who goes there?
What sail’s she carrying?
Ain’t it gay?
What would the boys say if they could see us?
Say?
And a hermit’s got to sleep on the hardest place he can find, and put sackcloth and ashes on his head, and stand out in the rain, and—”
“What does he put sackcloth and ashes on his head for?
Well, what would you do?
How’d you get around it?
Presently Huck said:
“What does pirates have to do?
Who?
What makes the candle blow so?
Now I wonder what?
Well, the things is ours, anyway, ain’t they?
How’d you feel to light on a rotten chest full of gold and silver—hey?
Well, we’ll let the crybaby go home to his mother, won’t we, Huck?
Poor thing—does it want to see its mother?
You like it here, don’t you, Huck?
We’ll stay, won’t we?
We’ll stay, won’t we, Huck?
That’s just the way with me, hain’t it, Huck?
You’ve heard me talk just that way—haven’t you, Huck?
Don’t you remember, Huck?
Don’t you remember, Huck, ’bout me saying that?
Say—boys, don’t say anything about it, and some time when they’re around, I’ll come up to you and say, ‘Joe, got a pipe?
And when we tell ’em we learned when we was off pirating, won’t they wish they’d been along?
Would you, Tom?
Say, now, would you, if you’d thought of it?
That’s something, ain’t it?
What did you dream?
Did you dream any more?
Well, try to recollect—can’t you?
And then—and then—well I won’t be certain, but it seems like as if you made Sid go and—and—”
“Well?
Well?
What did I make him do, Tom?
What did I make him do?
What did he say, Tom?
And then what?
you bad girl, why didn’t you come to Sunday-school?
I did come—didn’t you see me?
Did you?
Where did you sit?
Did you?
Who’s going to give it?
When is it going to be?
You going to have all the girls and boys?
Oh, may I come?
And me?
And me, too?
And Joe?
Tom thought, “Oh, hang her, ain’t I ever going to get rid of her?
Oh, you do, do you?
You holler ’nough, do you?
Auntie, what have I done?
What did you come for, then?
But it ain’t reasonable; because, why didn’t you tell me, child?
What bark?
Did you kiss me, Tom?
Are you sure you did, Tom?
What did you kiss me for, Tom?
I won’t ever, ever do that way again, as long as ever I live—please make up, won’t you?
Tom was so stunned that he had not even presence of mind enough to say “Who cares, Miss Smarty?
How could I know you was looking at anything?
Well, of course I ain’t going to tell old Dobbins on this little fool, because there’s other ways of getting even on her, that ain’t so mean; but what of it?
Then he spoke: “Who tore this book?
Benjamin Rogers, did you tear this book?
Joseph Harper, did you?
The master scanned the ranks of boys—considered a while, then turned to the girls:
“Amy Lawrence?
Gracie Miller?
Susan Harper, did you do this?
Rebecca Thatcher” [Tom glanced at her face—it was white with terror]—“did you tear—no, look me in the face” [her hands rose in appeal]—“did you tear this book?
The first composition that was read was one entitled “Is this, then, Life?
Huck, have you ever told anybody about—that?
’Bout what?
Never a word?
What makes you ask?
After a pause:
“Huck, they couldn’t anybody get you to tell, could they?
Get me to tell?
What is the talk around, Huck?
Talk?
Don’t you feel sorry for him, sometimes?
Did this attorney mean to throw away his client’s life without an effort?
Thomas Sawyer, where were you on the seventeenth of June, about the hour of midnight?
Were you anywhere near Horse Williams’ grave?
How near were you?
Were you hidden, or not?
Where?
Any one with you?
What did you take there?
The poor fellow had got the attorney to promise secrecy, but what of that?
Where’ll we dig?
Why, is it hid all around?
Who hides it?
Why, robbers, of course—who’d you reckon?
Sunday-school sup’rintendents?
Don’t they come after it any more?
Hyro—which?
Have you got one of them papers, Tom?
Well then, how you going to find the marks?
Is it under all of them?
Then how you going to know which one to go for?
Well, what of that?
How’s that?
Is that so?
Hain’t you ever seen one, Huck?
Do they hop?
Hop?
Well, what did you say they did, for?
Shucks, I only meant you’d see ’em—not hopping, of course—what do they want to hop for?
Richard?
What’s his other name?
No?
But say—where you going to dig first?
S’pose we tackle that old dead-limb tree on the hill t’other side of Still-House branch?
Say, Huck, if we find a treasure here, what you going to do with your share?
Well, ain’t you going to save any of it?
Save it?
What for?
What you going to do with yourn, Tom?
What’s the name of the gal?
Anyway, what’s her name, Tom?
Huck said:
“Do they always bury it as deep as this?
Finally Huck leaned on his shovel, swabbed the beaded drops from his brow with his sleeve, and said:
“Where you going to dig next, after we get this one?
But won’t the widow take it away from us, Tom?
What do you think?
Can you get out?
What’s that?
What’ll it be?
But anyway they don’t come around in the daytime, so what’s the use of our being afeard?
Tom was impatient to go to the haunted house; Huck was measurably so, also—but suddenly said:
“Lookyhere, Tom, do you know what day it is?
Well, I never said I was, did I?
Did they fight?
Do you know Robin Hood, Huck?
Who’s Robin Hood?
Who did he rob?
What’s a yew bow?
What is it?
Hear it?
have I been asleep?
What’ll we do with what little swag we’ve got left?
What is it?
Well—if you say so; what’ll we do with this—bury it again?
What business has a pick and a shovel here?
What business with fresh earth on them?
Who brought them here—and where are they gone?
Have you heard anybody?
seen anybody?
bury it again and leave them to come and see the ground disturbed?
You mean Number One?
Presently he said:
“Who could have brought those tools here?
Do you reckon they can be upstairs?
He gathered himself up cursing, and his comrade said:
“Now what’s the use of all that?
If it’s anybody, and they’re up there, let them stay there—who cares?
If they want to jump down, now, and get into trouble, who objects?
Follow?
Revenge?
What ain’t a dream?
What do you reckon it is?
Now what you going to do?
what’d you see, Tom?
Lordy, what did you do?
Did he wake up?
Say, Tom, did you see that box?
Don’t you see, now, what’s the matter with that ha’nted room?
How?
Maybe all the Temperance Taverns have got a ha’nted room, hey, Huck?
Who’d ’a’ thought such a thing?
You go back and watch that long, will you?
Now, where you going to sleep?
Then Becky reflected a moment and said:
“But what will mamma say?
How’ll she ever know?
Your mother won’t know, and so what’s the harm?
And why should he give it up, he reasoned—the signal did not come the night before, so why should it be any more likely to come tonight?
By-and-by somebody shouted:
“Who’s ready for the cave?
Was there any use?
Was there really any use?
Why not give it up and turn in?
Why call Tom now?
Now—this way—now you see, don’t you?
do you understand?
Kill?
Who said anything about killing?
If she bleeds to death, is that my fault?
Do you understand that?
Do it now?
And company there?
What’s the row there?
Who’s banging?
What do you want?
Why, who are you?
But you couldn’t see what they were like, in the dark, lad, I suppose?
But why don’t you want it known?
The old man promised secrecy once more, and said:
“How did you come to follow these fellows, lad?
Were they looking suspicious?
Could you see the rags by the light of the cigars?
They found none, but captured a bulky bundle of—
“Of what?
Why, what’s the matter with you?
But what did give you that turn?
What were you expecting we’d found?
Why didn’t you come and wake me?
Those fellows warn’t likely to come again—they hadn’t any tools left to work with, and what was the use of waking you up and scaring you to death?
When the sermon was finished, Judge Thatcher’s wife dropped alongside of Missis Harper as she moved down the aisle with the crowd and said:
“Is my Becky going to sleep all day?
Your Becky?
Yes,” with a startled look—“didn’t she stay with you last night?
Joe Harper, have you seen my Tom this morning?
When did you see him last?
Huck started up in bed, wildeyed:
“What?
What was it?
Was it Tom Sawyer that found it?
But what could she be crying about?
I wonder how long we’ve been down here, Tom?
Can you find the way, Tom?
Do you remember this?
Then he said:
“Becky, can you bear it if I tell you something?
Well, Becky?
When would they miss us, Tom?
Tom, it might be dark then—would they notice we hadn’t come?
Did you hear that?
Why?
What was the matter with you, Tom?
Has everything a purpose and a mission?
Did this drop fall patiently during five thousand years to be ready for this flitting human insect’s need?
and has it another important object to accomplish ten thousand years to come?
Injun Joe was believed to have killed five citizens of the village, but what of that?
Don’t you remember you was to watch there that night?
You followed him?
Tom, have you got on the track of that money again?
Tom—honest injun, now—is it fun, or earnest?
Will you go in there with me and help get it out?
When do you say?
Are you strong enough?
Is it far in the cave?
But do you see that white place up yonder where there’s been a landslide?
Tom Sawyer’s Gang—it sounds splendid, don’t it, Huck?
And who’ll we rob?
And kill them?
What’s a ransom?
Do you see that?
Now where’s your Number Two?
under the cross,’ hey?
and leave the treasure?
Now, what’s that for?
you hear that?
What orgies?
Just as they were about to move on, the Welshman stepped out and said:
“Hallo, who’s that?
Got bricks in it?
or old metal?
Ain’t you and the widow good friends?
What do you want to be afraid for?
what do you want to slope for?
Say—ain’t this grease and clay, on your clothes?
What’s all this blowout about, anyway?
Well, what?
Secret about what, Sid?
Sid, was it you that told?
Sid, what ails Tom?
Tom poured the mass of yellow coin upon the table and said:
“There—what did I tell you?
Oh, good-licks; are you in real dead-wood earnest, Tom?
Can’t let me in, Tom?
Didn’t you let me go for a pirate?
Now, Tom, hain’t you always ben friendly to me?
You wouldn’t shet me out, would you, Tom?
You wouldn’t do that, now, would you, Tom?
Huck, I wouldn’t want to, and I don’t want to—but what would people say?
Will you, Tom—now will you?
When you going to start the gang and turn robbers?
Have the which?
What’s that?