Title:  Adventures of  Sawyer, Complete. Author: Mark Twain (Samuel Clemens). Preface. Most of  adventures recorded in this book really occurred; one or  were experiences of my own,  rest those of boys  were schoolmates of mine. Huck Finn is drawn from life;  Sawyer also,   from an individual—he is a combination of  characteristics of three boys whom I knew, and therefore belongs to  composite order of architecture.  odd superstitions touched upon were all prevalent among children and slaves in  West at  period of this story—that is to , thirty or forty years ago. Although my book is intended mainly   entertainment of boys and girls, I hope it will  be shunned by  and women on that account,  part of my plan  been to  to pleasantly remind adults of what they once were themselves, and of  they felt and thought and talked, and what queer enterprises they sometimes engaged in.  AUTHOR. HARTFORD, 1876. CHAPTER I “!” No answer. “!” No answer. “What’s gone with that , I wonder?  !” No answer.  old lady pulled  spectacles down and looked over them about  room; then   them up and looked out under them.  seldom or never looked through them  so small a thing as a ; they were  state pair,  pride of  heart, and were built  “style,”  service— could have seen through a pair of stove-lids just as well.  looked perplexed  a moment, and then said,  fiercely,  still loud enough   furniture to hear: “Well, I  if I  hold of  I’ll—”    finish,  by this time   bending down and punching under   with  broom, and so  needed breath to punctuate  punches with.  resurrected nothing   . “I never    beat of that !”  went to  open door and stood in it and looked out among  tomato vines and “jimpson” weeds that constituted  garden. No . So  lifted up  voice at an angle calculated  distance and shouted: “Y-o-u-u !” There  a slight noise behind  and  turned just in time to seize a small  by  slack of  roundabout and arrest  flight. “There! I might ’a’ thought of that closet. What  been doing in there?” “Nothing.” “Nothing! Look at your hands. And look at your mouth. What is that truck?” “I ’t know, aunt.” “Well, I know. It’s —that’s what it is. Forty times I’ve said if  didn’t  that  alone I’d skin . Hand me that switch.”  switch hovered in  air— peril  desperate— “My! Look behind , aunt!”  old lady whirled round, and snatched  skirts out of danger.   fled on  instant, scrambled up  high board-fence, and disappeared over it.  aunt Polly stood surprised a moment, and then broke into a gentle laugh. “Hang  , ’t I never learn anything? Ain’t he played me tricks enough like that  me to be looking out   by this time?  old fools is  biggest fools there is. ’t learn an old   tricks, as  saying is.  my goodness, he never plays them alike,  days, and  is a body to know what’s coming? He ’pears to know just  long he  torment me before I  my dander up, and he knows if he  make out to  me off  a minute or make me laugh, it’s all down again and I ’t   a lick. I ain’t doing my duty by that , and that’s  Lord’s truth, goodness knows. Spare   and spile  child, as  Good Book says. I’m a laying up  and suffering  us both, I know. He’s full of  Old Scratch,  laws-a-me! he’s my own dead sister’s , poor thing, and I ain’t   heart to lash , somehow. Every time I   off, my conscience does hurt me so, and every time I   my old heart most breaks. Well-a-well,  that is born of woman is of  days and full of trouble, as  Scripture says, and I reckon it’s so. He’ll play hookey this evening, * and [* Southwestern  “afternoon”] I’ll just be obleeged to make  work, tomorrow, to punish . It’s mighty hard to make  work Saturdays, when all  boys is having holiday,  he hates work more than he hates anything else, and I’ve  to do some of my duty by , or I’ll be  ruination of  child.”   play hookey, and he  a very good time. He  back home barely in season to help ,  small colored ,  next-’s wood and split  kindlings before supper—at least he  there in time to tell  adventures to  while   three-fourths of  work. ’s younger brother (or rather half-brother)   already through with  part of  work (picking up chips),  he  a quiet , and  no adventurous, trouble-some ways. While   eating  supper, and stealing sugar as opportunity offered, Aunt Polly asked  questions that were full of guile, and very deep—  wanted to trap  into damaging revealments. Like many other simple-hearted souls, it    vanity to believe   endowed with a talent  dark and mysterious diplomacy, and  loved to contemplate  most transparent devices as marvels of  cunning. Said : “, it  middling warm in school, warn’t it?” “’m.” “Powerful warm, warn’t it?” “’m.” “Didn’t  want to go in a-swimming, ?” A  of a scare shot through —a touch of uncomfortable suspicion. He searched Aunt Polly’s face,  it told  nothing. So he said: “No’m—well,  very much.”  old lady reached out  hand and felt ’s shirt, and said: “  ain’t  warm , though.” And it flattered  to reflect that   discovered that  shirt   without anybody knowing that that  what   in  mind.  in spite of ,  knew where  wind , . So he forestalled what might be  next move: “Some of us pumped on our heads—mine’s damp . ?” Aunt Polly  vexed to think   overlooked that  of circumstantial evidence, and missed a trick. Then   a  inspiration: “,  didn’t have to undo your shirt collar where I sewed it, to pump on your head,  ? Unbutton your jacket!”  trouble vanished out of ’s face. He opened  jacket.  shirt collar  securely sewed. “Bother! Well, go ’long with . I’d made sure ’d played hookey and been a-swimming.  I forgive ye, . I reckon ’re a kind of a singed , as  saying is—better’n  look. This time.”   half sorry  sagacity  miscarried, and half glad that   stumbled into obedient conduct  once.  Sidney said: “Well, , if I didn’t think  sewed  collar with white thread,  it’s black.” “, I   it with white! !”     wait   rest. As he went out at  door he said: “Siddy, I’ll lick   that.” In a safe place  examined  large needles which were thrust into  lapels of  jacket, and  thread bound about them—one needle carried white thread and  other black. He said: “’d never noticed if it hadn’t been  . Confound it! sometimes  sews it with white, and sometimes  sews it with black. I wish to -miny ’d stick to one or t’other—I ’t keep   of ’em.  I   I’ll    that. I’ll learn !” He    Model  of  village. He knew  model  very well though—and loathed . Within  minutes, or even less, he  forgotten all  troubles.  because  troubles were one whit less heavy and bitter to  than a ’s are to a ,  because a  and powerful interest bore them down and drove them out of  mind   time—just as ’s misfortunes are forgotten in  excitement of  enterprises. This  interest  a valued novelty in whistling, which he  just acquired from a negro, and he  suffering to practise it un-disturbed. It consisted in a peculiar bird-like turn, a sort of liquid warble, produced by touching  tongue to  roof of  mouth at short intervals in  midst of  music— reader probably remembers  to do it, if he  ever been a . Diligence and attention soon gave   knack of it, and he strode down  street with  mouth full of harmony and  soul full of gratitude. He felt much as an astronomer feels   discovered a  planet—no doubt, as  as strong, deep, unalloyed pleasure is concerned,  advantage  with  ,   astronomer.  summer evenings were long. It   dark, . Presently  checked  whistle. A stranger  before —a  a shade larger than himself. A -comer of any age or either   an im-pressive curiosity in  poor little shabby village of St. Petersburg. This   well dressed, —well dressed on a week-. This  simply astounding.    a dainty thing,  close-buttoned blue cloth roundabout   and natty, and so were  pantaloons. He  shoes on—and it  only Friday. He even wore a necktie, a bright  of ribbon. He  a citified air about  that ate into ’s vitals.  more  stared at  splendid marvel,  higher he turned up  nose at  finery and  shabbier and shabbier  own outfit seemed to  to grow. Neither  spoke. If one moved,  other moved— only sidewise, in a circle; they kept face to face and eye to eye all  time. Finally  said: “I  lick !” “I’d like to    it.” “Well, I  do it.” “No  ’t, either.” “ I .” “No  ’t.” “I .” “ ’t.” “!” “’t!” An uncomfortable pause. Then  said: “What’s your name?” “’Tisn’t any of your business, maybe.” “Well I ’ I’ll make it my business.” “Well  ’t ?” “If   much, I will.” “Much—much—much. There .” “Oh,  think ’re mighty smart, ’t ? I could lick  with one hand tied behind me, if I wanted to.” “Well  ’t  do it?     do it.” “Well I will, if  fool with me.” “Oh —I’ve seen whole families in  same .” “Smarty!  think ’re some, , ’t ? Oh, what a !” “  lump that  if  ’t like it. I dare  to knock it off—and anybody that’ll take a dare will suck eggs.” “’re a liar!” “’re another.” “’re a fighting liar and dasn’t take it up.” “Aw—take a walk!” “—if  give me much more of your sass I’ll take and bounce a rock off’n your head.” “Oh, of course  will.” “Well I will.” “Well  ’t  do it then? What do  keep saying  will ?  ’t  do it? It’s because ’re afraid.” “I ain’t afraid.” “ are.” “I ain’t.” “ are.” Another pause, and more eying and sidling around each other. Presently they were shoulder to shoulder.  said: “ away from here!” “Go away yourself!” “I ’t.” “I ’t either.” So they stood, each with a foot placed at an angle as a brace, and both shoving with might and main, and glowering at each other with hate.  neither could  an advantage. After struggling till both were  and flushed, each relaxed  strain with watchful caution, and  said: “’re a coward and a . I’ll tell my  brother on , and he  thrash  with  little finger, and I’ll make  do it, .” “What do I care  your  brother? I’ve  a brother that’s bigger than he is—and what’s more, he  throw  over that fence, .” [Both brothers were imaginary.] “That’s a .” “Your saying so ’t make it so.”  drew a line in  dust with   , and said: “I dare  to step over that, and I’ll lick  till  ’t stand up. Anybody that’ll take a dare will steal sheep.”    stepped over promptly, and said: “  said ’d do it,  ’s   do it.” “’t  crowd me ;  better look out.” “Well,  said ’d do it— ’t  do it?” “By jingo!   cents I will do it.”    took  broad coppers out of  pocket and held them out with derision.  struck them to  ground. In an instant both boys were rolling and tumbling in  dirt, gripped together like cats; and   space of a minute they tugged and tore at each other’s hair and clothes, punched and scratched each other’s nose, and covered themselves with dust and glory. Presently  confusion took form, and through   of battle  appeared, seated astride   , and pounding  with  fists. “Holler ’nuff!” said he.   only struggled to free himself. He  crying—mainly from rage. “Holler ’nuff!”—and  pounding went on. At last  stranger  out a smothered “’Nuff!” and    up and said: “ that’ll learn . Better look out  ’re fooling with next time.”    went off brushing  dust from  clothes, sobbing, snuffling, and occasionally looking back and shaking  head and threatening what he would do to   “next time he caught  out.” To which  responded with jeers, and started off in high feather, and as soon as  back  turned    snatched up a stone, threw it and   between  shoulders and then turned tail and  like an antelope.  chased  traitor home, and thus found out where he lived. He then held a position at  gate  some time, daring  enemy to come outside,   enemy only made faces at  through  window and declined. At last  enemy’s mother appeared, and called  a , vicious, vulgar child, and ordered  away. So he went away;  he said he “’lowed” to “”  that . He  home pretty late that night, and when he climbed cautiously in at  window, he uncovered an ambuscade, in  person of  aunt; and when    state  clothes were in  resolution to turn  Saturday holiday into captivity at hard labor became adamantine in its firmness. CHAPTER II SATURDAY morning  come, and all  summer world  bright and fresh, and brimming with life. There  a song in every heart; and if  heart  young  music issued at  lips. There  cheer in every face and a spring in every step.  locust-trees were in bloom and  fragrance of  blossoms filled  air. Cardiff Hill, beyond  village and above it,  green with vegetation and it  just  enough away to seem a Delectable Land, dreamy, reposeful, and inviting.  appeared on  sidewalk with a bucket of whitewash and a long-handled brush. He surveyed  fence, and all gladness left  and a deep melancholy settled down upon  spirit. Thirty yards of board fence nine feet high. Life to  seemed hollow, and existence  a burden. Sighing, he dipped  brush and passed it along  topmost plank; repeated  operation;  it again; compared  insignificant whitewashed streak with  -reaching continent of unwhitewashed fence, and  down on a tree- discouraged.  came skipping out at  gate with a  pail, and singing Buffalo Gals. Bringing water from  town pump  always been hateful work in ’s eyes, before,   it   strike  so. He remembered that there  company at  pump. White, mulatto, and negro boys and girls were always there waiting their turns, resting, trading playthings, quarrelling, fighting, skylarking. And he remembered that although  pump  only a hundred and fifty yards off,  never  back with a bucket of water under an hour—and even then somebody generally  to go after .  said: “, , I’ll fetch  water if ’ll whitewash some.”  shook  head and said: “’t, Mars . Ole missis,  tole me I  to go an’   water an’  stop foolin’ roun’  anybody.    spec’ Mars  gwine to ax me to whitewash, an’ so  tole me go ’long an’ ’tend to my own business— ’lowed ’d ’tend to de whitewashin’.” “Oh, never  mind what  said, . That’s    always talks. Gimme  bucket—I ’t be gone only a a minute.  ’t ever know.” “Oh, I dasn’t, Mars . Ole missis ’d take an’  de head off’n me. ’Deed  would.” “!  never licks anybody—whacks ’em over  head with  thimble—and  cares  that, I’d like to know.  talks awful,  talk ’t hurt—anyways it ’t if  ’t . , I’ll give  a marvel. I’ll give  a white alley!”  began to waver. “White alley, ! And it’s a bully .” “My! ’s a mighty  marvel, I tell !  Mars  I’s powerful ’fraid ole missis—” “And besides, if  will I’ll show  my sore .”   only human—this attraction   much  . He  down  pail, took  white alley, and bent over   with absorbing interest while  bandage  being unwound. In another moment he  flying down  street with  pail and a tingling rear,   whitewashing with vigor, and Aunt Polly  retiring from  field with a slipper in  hand and triumph in  eye.  ’s energy   last. He began to think of   he  planned  this , and  sorrows multiplied. Soon  free boys would come tripping along on all sorts of delicious expeditions, and they would make a world of  of   having to work— very thought of it burnt  like fire. He  out  worldly wealth and examined it—bits of toys, marbles, and trash; enough to  an exchange of work, maybe,   half enough to  so much as half an hour of pure freedom. So he returned  straitened means to  pocket, and gave up  idea of trying to   boys. At this dark and hopeless moment an inspiration burst upon ! Nothing less than a great, magnificent inspiration. He took up  brush and went tranquilly to work.  Rogers hove in sight presently— very , of all boys, whose ridicule he  been dreading. ’s gait   -skip-and-jump—proof enough that  heart  light and  anticipations high. He  eating an apple, and giving a long, melodious whoop, at intervals, followed by a deep-toned ding-dong-dong, ding-dong-dong,  he  personating a steamboat. As he drew near, he slackened speed, took  middle of  street, leaned  over to starboard and rounded to ponderously and with laborious pomp and circumstance— he  personating   Missouri, and considered himself to be drawing nine feet of water. He  boat and captain and engine-bells combined, so he  to imagine himself standing on  own hurricane-deck giving  orders and executing them: “Stop , ! Ting-a-ling-ling!”  headway  almost out, and he drew up slowly toward  sidewalk. “Ship up to back! Ting-a-ling-ling!”  arms straightened and stiffened down  sides. “  back on  stabboard! Ting-a-ling-ling! Chow! ch-chow-! Chow!”  right hand, mean-time, describing stately circles— it  representing a forty-foot wheel. “  go back on  labboard! Ting-a-ling-ling! Chow-ch-chow-chow!”  left hand began to describe circles. “Stop  stabboard! Ting-a-ling-ling! Stop  labboard! Come ahead on  stabboard! Stop !  your outside turn over slow! Ting-a-ling-ling! Chow-ow-ow!  out that head-line! lively ! Come—out with your spring-line—what’re  about there! Take a turn round that stump with  bight of it! Stand by that stage, —  go! Done with  engines, ! Ting-a-ling-ling! SH’T! S’H'T! SH’T!” (trying  gauge-cocks).  went on whitewashing—paid no attention to  steamboat.  stared a moment and then said: “Hi-Yi! ’re up a stump, ain’t !” No answer.  surveyed  last touch with  eye of an artist, then he gave  brush another gentle sweep and surveyed  result, as before.  ranged up alongside of . ’s mouth watered   apple,  he stuck to  work.  said: “Hello, old chap,   to work, ?”  wheeled suddenly and said: “, it’s , ! I warn’t noticing.” “—I’m going in a-swimming, I am. ’t  wish  could?  of course ’d druther work—wouldn’t ? Course  would!”  contemplated   a , and said: “What do  call work?” “, ain’t that work?”  resumed  whitewashing, and answered carelessly: “Well, maybe it is, and maybe it ain’t. All I know, is, it suits  Sawyer.” “Oh come, ,  ’t mean to  on that  like it?”  brush continued to move. “Like it? Well, I ’t   I oughtn’t to like it. Does a   a chance to whitewash a fence every ?” That   thing in a  light.  stopped nibbling  apple.  swept  brush daintily back and forth—stepped back to note  effect—added a touch here and there—criticised  effect again— watching every move and getting more and more interested, more and more absorbed. Presently he said: “, ,  me whitewash a little.”  considered,  about to consent;  he altered  mind: “No—no—I reckon it wouldn’t hardly do, .  , Aunt Polly’s awful particular about this fence—right here on  street,  know— if it   back fence I wouldn’t mind and  wouldn’t. , ’s awful particular about this fence; it’s  to be done very careful; I reckon there ain’t one  in a thousand, maybe  thousand, that  do it   it’s  to be done.” “No—is that so? Oh come, —lemme just . Only just a little—I’d  , if   me, .” “, I’d like to, honest injun;  Aunt Polly—well,  wanted to do it,   wouldn’t  ;  wanted to do it, and  wouldn’t  .  ’t    I’m fixed? If   to tackle this fence and anything  to happen to it—” “Oh, shucks, I’ll be just as careful.  lemme . —I’ll give   core of my apple.” “Well, here—No, ,  ’t. I’m afeard—” “I’ll give  all of it!”  gave up  brush with reluctance in  face,  alacrity in  heart. And while  late steamer  Missouri worked and sweated in  ,  retired artist  on a barrel in  shade close by, dangled  legs, munched  apple, and planned  slaughter of more innocents. There  no lack of material; boys happened along every little while; they came to jeer,  remained to whitewash. By  time   fagged out,   traded  next chance to Billy Fisher  a kite, in good repair; and when he played out, Johnny Miller bought in  a dead  and a string to swing it with—and so on, and so on, hour after hour. And when  middle of  afternoon came, from being a poor poverty-stricken  in  morning,   literally rolling in wealth. He  besides  things before mentioned, twelve marbles, part of a jews-harp, a piece of blue bottle-glass to look through, a spool cannon, a  that wouldn’t unlock anything, a fragment of chalk, a glass stopper of a decanter, a  soldier, a couple of tadpoles,  fire-crackers, a kitten with only one eye, a brass door-knob, a -collar— no — handle of a knife, four pieces of orange-peel, and a dilapidated old window sash. He   a nice, good, idle time all  while—plenty of company—and  fence  three coats of whitewash on it! If he hadn’t  out of whitewash he would have bankrupted every  in  village.  said to himself that it   such a hollow world, after all. He  discovered a great  of human action, without knowing it—namely, that in order to make a  or a  covet a thing, it is only necessary to make  thing difficult to attain. If he  been a great and wise philosopher, like  writer of this book, he would  have comprehended that Work consists of whatever a body is obliged to do, and that Play consists of whatever a body is  obliged to do. And this would help  to understand  constructing artificial flowers or performing on a tread-mill is work, while rolling -pins or climbing Mont Blanc is only amusement. There are wealthy gentlemen in England  drive four-horse passenger-coaches twenty or thirty miles on a daily line, in  summer, because  privilege costs them considerable money;  if they were offered wages   service, that would turn it into work and then they would resign.   mused awhile over  substantial change which  taken place in  worldly circumstances, and then wended toward headquarters to report. CHAPTER III  presented himself before Aunt Polly,   sitting by an open window in a pleasant rearward apartment, which  bedroom, breakfast-room, dining-room, and library, combined.  balmy summer air,  restful quiet,  odor of  flowers, and  drowsing murmur of  bees   their effect, and   nodding over  knitting—   no company   , and it  asleep in  .  spectacles were propped up on  gray head  safety.   thought that of course   deserted long ago, and  wondered at seeing  place himself in  power again in this intrepid . He said: “Mayn’t I go and play , aunt?” “What, a’ready?  much have  done?” “It’s all done, aunt.” “, ’t  to me—I ’t bear it.” “I ain’t, aunt; it is all done.” Aunt Polly placed small trust in such evidence.  went out to   herself; and  would have been content to find twenty  cent. of ’s statement true. When  found  entire fence white-washed, and  only whitewashed  elaborately coated and recoated, and even a streak added to  ground,  astonishment  almost unspeakable.  said: “Well, I never! There’s no getting round it,   work when ’re a mind to, .” And then  diluted  compliment by adding, “ it’s powerful seldom ’re a mind to, I’m bound to . Well, go ’long and play;  mind   back some time in a week, or I’ll  .”   so overcome by  splendor of  achievement that  took  into  closet and selected a choice apple and delivered it to , along with an improving lecture upon  added value and flavor a treat took to itself when it came without  through virtuous effort. And while  closed with a happy Scriptural flourish, he “hooked” a doughnut. Then he skipped out, and   just starting up  outside stairway that  to  back rooms on  second floor. Clods were handy and  air  full of them in a twinkling. They raged around  like a hail-storm; and before Aunt Polly could collect  surprised faculties and sally to  rescue,  or seven clods  taken personal effect, and   over  fence and gone. There  a gate,  as a general thing he   crowded  time to make use of it.  soul  at peace,  that he  settled with   calling attention to  black thread and getting  into trouble.  skirted  block, and came round into a muddy alley that  by  back of  aunt’s -stable. He presently  safely beyond  reach of capture and punishment, and hastened toward  public square of  village, where  “military” companies of boys    conflict, according to previous appointment.   General of one of these armies,  Harper (a bosom friend) General of  other. These  great commanders   condescend to fight in person—that being better suited to  still smaller —  together on an eminence and conducted  field operations by orders delivered through aides-de-camp. ’s army  a great victory, after a long and hard-fought battle. Then  dead were counted, prisoners exchanged,  terms of  next disagreement agreed upon, and     necessary battle appointed; after which  armies fell into line and marched away, and  turned homeward alone. As he  passing by  house where Jeff Thatcher lived, he  a  girl in  garden—a lovely little blue-eyed creature with yellow hair plaited into  long-tails, white summer frock and embroidered -talettes.  fresh-crowned hero fell without firing a shot. A certain Amy Lawrence vanished out of  heart and left  even a memory of herself behind. He  thought he loved  to distraction; he  regarded  passion as adoration; and behold it  only a poor little evanescent partiality. He  been months winning ;   confessed hardly a week ago; he  been  happiest and  proudest  in  world only seven short days, and here in one instant of time   gone out of  heart like a casual stranger whose visit is done. He worshipped this  angel with furtive eye, till he  that   discovered ; then he pretended he   know   present, and began to “show off” in all sorts of absurd boyish ways, in order to   admiration. He kept up this grotesque foolishness  some time;  by-and-by, while he  in  midst of some dangerous gymnastic performances, he glanced aside and  that  little girl  wending   toward  house.  came up to  fence and leaned on it, grieving, and hoping  would tarry  awhile longer.  halted a moment on  steps and then moved toward  door.  heaved a great sigh as    foot on  threshold.   face  up, right away,   tossed a pansy over  fence a moment before  disappeared.    around and stopped within a foot or  of  flower, and then shaded  eyes with  hand and began to look down street as if he  discovered something of interest going on in that direction. Presently he picked up a straw and began trying to balance it on  nose, with  head tilted  back; and as he moved from side to side, in  efforts, he edged nearer and nearer toward  pansy; finally  bare foot rested upon it,  pliant toes closed upon it, and he hopped away with  treasure and disappeared round  corner.  only  a minute—only while he could button  flower inside  jacket, next  heart—or next  stomach, possibly,  he   much posted in anatomy, and  hypercritical, anyway. He returned, , and hung about  fence till nightfall, “showing off,” as before;   girl never exhibited herself again, though  comforted himself a little with  hope that   been near some window, meantime, and been aware of  attentions. Finally he strode home reluctantly, with  poor head full of visions. All through supper  spirits were so high that  aunt wondered “what   into  child.” He took a good scolding about clodding , and   seem to mind it in  least. He tried to steal sugar under  aunt’s very nose, and   knuckles rapped  it. He said: “Aunt,  ’t whack  when he takes it.” “Well,  ’t torment a body    do. ’d be always into that sugar if I warn’t watching .” Presently  stepped into  kitchen, and , happy in  immunity, reached   sugar-bowl—a sort of glorying over  which  wellnigh unbearable.  ’s fingers slipped and  bowl dropped and broke.   in ecstasies. In such ecstasies that he even controlled  tongue and  silent. He said to himself that he would  speak a word, even when  aunt came in,  would  perfectly still till  asked    mischief; and then he would tell, and there would be nothing so good in  world as to  that  model “catch it.” He  so brimful of exultation that he could hardly hold himself when  old lady came back and stood above  wreck discharging lightnings of wrath from over  spectacles. He said to himself, “ it’s coming!” And  next instant he  sprawling on  floor!  potent palm  uplifted to strike again when  cried out: “Hold on, , what ’er  belting me ?— broke it!” Aunt Polly paused, perplexed, and  looked  healing pity.  when    tongue again,  only said: “Umf! Well,  didn’t  a lick amiss, I reckon.  been into some other audacious mischief when I wasn’t around, like enough.” Then  conscience reproached , and  yearned to  something kind and loving;   judged that this would be construed into a confession that   been in  wrong, and discipline forbade that. So  kept silence, and went about  affairs with a troubled heart.  sulked in a corner and exalted  woes. He knew that in  heart  aunt  on  knees to , and he  morosely gratified by  consciousness of it. He would hang out no signals, he would take notice of none. He knew that a yearning glance fell upon ,  and then, through a film of tears,  he refused recognition of it. He pictured himself lying sick unto death and  aunt bending over  beseeching one little forgiving word,  he would turn  face to  wall, and  with that word unsaid. Ah,  would  feel then? And he pictured himself brought home from  river, dead, with  curls all , and  sore heart at rest.   would throw herself upon , and   tears would fall like rain, and  lips pray  to give  back   and  would never, never abuse  any more!  he would  there cold and white and make no sign—a poor little sufferer, whose griefs were at an end. He so worked upon  feelings with  pathos of these dreams, that he  to keep swallowing, he  so like to choke; and  eyes swam in a blur of water, which overflowed when he winked, and  down and trickled from  end of  nose. And such a luxury to   this petting of  sorrows, that he could  bear to have any worldly cheeriness or any grating delight intrude upon it; it   sacred  such contact; and so, presently, when  cousin Mary danced in, all alive with   of seeing home again after an age-long visit of one week to  country, he  up and moved in clouds and darkness out at one door as  brought song and sunshine in at  other. He wandered  from  accustomed haunts of boys, and sought desolate places that were in harmony with  spirit. A  raft in  river invited , and he seated himself on its outer edge and contemplated  dreary vastness of  stream, wishing,  while, that he could only be drowned, all at once and unconsciously, without undergoing  uncomfortable routine devised by nature. Then he thought of  flower. He  it out, rumpled and wilted, and it mightily increased  dismal felicity. He wondered if  would pity  if  knew? Would  , and wish that   a right to   arms around  neck and comfort ? Or would  turn coldly away like all  hollow world? This picture brought such an agony of pleasurable suffering that he worked it over and over again in  mind and  it up in  and varied lights, till he wore it threadbare. At last he rose up sighing and departed in  darkness. About half-past nine or  o’clock he came along  deserted street to where  Adored Unknown lived; he paused a moment; no sound fell upon  listening ear; a candle  casting a dull glow upon  curtain of a second-story window.   sacred presence there? He climbed  fence, threaded  stealthy  through  plants, till he stood under that window; he looked up at it long, and with emotion; then he laid  down on  ground under it, disposing himself upon  back, with  hands clasped upon  breast and holding  poor wilted flower. And thus he would —out in  cold world, with no shelter over  homeless head, no friendly hand to wipe  death-damps from  brow, no loving face to bend pityingly over  when  great agony came. And thus  would   when  looked out upon  glad morning, and oh! would  drop one little tear upon  poor, lifeless form, would  heave one little sigh to  a bright young life so rudely blighted, so untimely  down?  window went up, a maid-servant’s discordant voice profaned  holy calm, and a deluge of water drenched  prone martyr’s remains!  strangling hero sprang up with a relieving snort. There  a whiz as of a missile in  air, mingled with  murmur of a curse, a sound as of shivering glass followed, and a small, vague form went over  fence and shot away in  gloom.  long after, as , all undressed  ,  surveying  drenched garments by  light of a tallow ,  woke up;  if he  any  idea of making any “references to allusions,” he thought better of it and held  peace,  there  danger in ’s eye.  turned in without  added vexation of prayers, and  made mental note of  omission. CHAPTER IV   rose upon a tranquil world, and beamed down upon  peaceful village like a benediction. Breakfast over, Aunt Polly  family worship: it began with a prayer built from  ground up of solid courses of Scriptural quotations, welded together with a thin mortar of originality; and from  summit of this  delivered a grim chapter of  Mosaic , as from Sinai. Then  girded up  loins, so to speak, and went to work to “  verses.”   learned  lesson days before.  bent all  energies to  memorizing of five verses, and he chose part of  Sermon on  Mount, because he could find no verses that were shorter. At  end of half an hour   a vague general idea of  lesson,  no more,   mind  traversing  whole field of human thought, and  hands were busy with distracting recreations. Mary took  book to hear  recite, and he tried to find   through  : “Blessed are —a—a—” “Poor”— “—poor; blessed are  poor—a—a—” “In spirit—” “In spirit; blessed are  poor in spirit,  they—they—” “Theirs—” “ theirs. Blessed are  poor in spirit,  theirs is  kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn,  they—they—” “Sh—” “ they—a—” “S, H, A—” “ they S, H—Oh, I ’t know what it is!” “Shall!” “Oh, shall!  they shall— they shall—a—a—shall mourn—a—a—blessed are they that shall—they that—a—they that shall mourn,  they shall—a—shall what?  ’t  tell me, Mary?—what do  want to be so mean ?” “Oh, ,  poor thick-headed thing, I’m  teasing . I wouldn’t do that.  must go and learn it again. ’t  be discouraged, , ’ll manage it—and if  do, I’ll give  something ever so nice. There, , that’s a good .” “All right! What is it, Mary, tell me what it is.” “Never  mind, .  know if I  it’s nice, it is nice.” “   that’s so, Mary. All right, I’ll tackle it again.” And he  “tackle it again”—and under  double pressure of curiosity and prospective gain he  it with such spirit that he accomplished a shining success. Mary gave  a brand- “Barlow” knife worth twelve and a half cents; and  convulsion of delight that swept  system shook  to  foundations. True,  knife would   anything,  it  a “sure-enough” Barlow, and there  inconceivable grandeur in that—though where  Western boys ever   idea that such a weapon could possibly be counterfeited to its injury is an imposing mystery and will always remain so, perhaps.  contrived to scarify  cupboard with it, and  arranging to begin on  bureau, when he  called off to dress  Sunday-school. Mary gave  a  basin of water and a piece of soap, and he went outside  door and   basin on a little bench there; then he dipped  soap in  water and laid it down; turned up  sleeves; poured out  water on  ground, gently, and then entered  kitchen and began to wipe  face diligently on  towel behind  door.  Mary removed  towel and said: “ ain’t  ashamed, .  mustn’t be so . Water ’t hurt .”   a trifle disconcerted.  basin  refilled, and this time he stood over it a little while, gathering resolution; took in a  breath and began. When he entered  kitchen presently, with both eyes shut and groping   towel with  hands, an honorable testimony of suds and water  dripping from  face.  when he emerged from  towel, he    satisfactory,   clean territory stopped short at  chin and  jaws, like a mask; below and beyond this line there  a dark expanse of unirrigated soil that spread downward in front and backward around  neck. Mary took  in hand, and when   done with  he  a  and a brother, without distinction of color, and  saturated hair  neatly brushed, and its short curls wrought into a dainty and symmetrical general effect. [He privately smoothed out  curls, with labor and difficulty, and plastered  hair close down to  head;  he held curls to be effeminate, and  own filled  life with bitterness.] Then Mary  out a suit of  clothing that  been used only on Sundays during  years—they were simply called  “other clothes”—and so by that we know  size of  wardrobe.  girl “  to rights” after he  dressed himself;  buttoned  neat roundabout up to  chin, turned  vast shirt collar down over  shoulders, brushed  off and crowned  with  speckled straw . He  looked exceedingly improved and uncomfortable. He  fully as uncomfortable as he looked;  there  a restraint about whole clothes and cleanliness that galled . He hoped that Mary would forget  shoes,   hope  blighted;  coated them thoroughly with tallow, as   custom, and brought them out. He lost  temper and said he  always being made to do everything he didn’t want to do.  Mary said, persuasively: “Please, —that’s a good .” So he  into  shoes snarling. Mary  soon ready, and  three children  out  Sunday-school—a place that  hated with  whole heart;   and Mary were fond of it. Sabbath-school hours were from nine to half-past ; and then church service.  of  children always remained   sermon voluntarily, and  other always remained — stronger reasons.  church’s high-backed, uncushioned pews would seat about three hundred persons;  edifice   a small, plain affair, with a sort of pine board tree- on  of it  a steeple. At  door  dropped back a step and accosted a Sunday-dressed comrade: “, Billy,  a yaller ticket?” “.” “What’ll  take  ?” “What’ll  give?” “Piece of lickrish and a fish-hook.” “Less  ’em.”  exhibited. They were satisfactory, and  property changed hands. Then  traded a couple of white alleys  three  tickets, and some small trifle or other  a couple of blue ones. He waylaid other boys as they came, and went on buying tickets of various colors  or fifteen minutes longer. He entered  church, , with a swarm of clean and noisy boys and girls, proceeded to  seat and started a quarrel with  first  that came handy.  teacher, a grave, elderly , interfered; then turned  back a moment and  pulled a ’s hair in  next bench, and  absorbed in  book when   turned around; stuck a  in another , presently, in order to hear   “Ouch!” and  a  reprimand from  teacher. ’s whole class were of a pattern—restless, noisy, and troublesome. When they came to recite their lessons,  one of them knew  verses perfectly,   to be prompted all along. However, they worried through, and each   reward—in small blue tickets, each with a passage of Scripture on it; each blue ticket     verses of  recitation.  blue tickets equalled a  one, and could be exchanged  it;   tickets equalled a yellow one;   yellow tickets  superintendent gave a very plainly bound Bible (worth forty cents in those easy times) to  pupil.  many of my readers would have  industry and application to memorize  thousand verses, even  a Dore Bible? And  Mary  acquired  Bibles in this —it   patient work of  years—and a  of German parentage   four or five. He once recited three thousand verses without stopping;   strain upon  mental faculties   great, and he  little better than an idiot from that  forth—a grievous misfortune   school,  on great occasions, before company,  superintendent (as  expressed it)  always made this  come out and “spread himself.” Only  older pupils managed to keep their tickets and stick to their tedious work long enough to  a Bible, and so  delivery of one of these prizes  a rare and noteworthy circumstance;  successful pupil  so great and conspicuous  that  that on  spot every scholar’s heart  fired with a fresh ambition that often lasted a couple of weeks. It is possible that ’s mental stomach  never really hungered  one of those prizes,  unquestionably  entire being   many a  longed   glory and  eclat that came with it. In  course  superintendent stood up in front of  pulpit, with a closed hymn-book in  hand and  forefinger inserted between its leaves, and commanded attention. When a Sunday-school superintendent makes  customary little speech, a hymn-book in  hand is as necessary as is  inevitable sheet of music in  hand of a singer  stands forward on  platform and sings a solo at a concert—though , is a mystery:  neither  hymn-book   sheet of music is ever referred to by  sufferer. This superintendent  a slim creature of thirty-five, with a sandy goatee and short sandy hair; he wore a stiff standing-collar whose upper edge almost reached  ears and whose sharp points curved forward abreast  corners of  mouth—a fence that compelled a straight lookout ahead, and a turning of  whole body when a side view  required;  chin  propped on a spreading cravat which  as broad and as long as a bank-note, and  fringed ends;  boot toes were turned sharply up, in  fashion of  , like sleigh-runners—an effect patiently and laboriously produced by  young  by sitting with their toes pressed against a wall  hours together. Mr. Walters  very earnest of mien, and very sincere and honest at heart; and he held sacred things and places in such reverence, and so separated them from worldly matters, that unconsciously to himself  Sunday-school voice  acquired a peculiar intonation which  wholly absent on week-days. He began after this fashion: “, children, I want  all to  up just as straight and pretty as   and give me all your attention  a minute or . There—that is it. That is   good little boys and girls should do. I  one little girl  is looking out of  window—I am afraid  thinks I am out there somewhere—perhaps up in one of  trees making a speech to  little birds. [Applausive titter.] I want to tell   good it makes me feel to  so many bright, clean little faces assembled in a place like this, learning to do right and be good.” And so forth and so on. It is  necessary to  down  rest of  oration. It  of a pattern which does  vary, and so it is familiar to us all.  latter third of  speech  marred by  resumption of fights and other recreations among certain of   boys, and by fidgetings and whisperings that extended  and wide, washing even to  bases of isolated and incorruptible rocks like  and Mary.   every sound ceased suddenly, with  subsidence of Mr. Walters’ voice, and  conclusion of  speech  received with a burst of silent gratitude. A good part of  whispering  been occasioned by an event which  more or less rare— entrance of visitors: lawyer Thatcher, accompanied by a very feeble and aged ; a fine, portly, middle-aged gentleman with iron-gray hair; and a dignified lady   doubtless  latter’s wife.  lady  leading a child.   been restless and full of chafings and repinings; conscience-smitten, —he could  meet Amy Lawrence’s eye, he could  brook  loving gaze.  when he  this small newcomer  soul  all ablaze with bliss in a moment.  next moment he  “showing off” with all  might—cuffing boys, pulling hair, making faces—in a word, using every art that seemed likely to fascinate a girl and   applause.  exaltation   one alloy— memory of  humiliation in this angel’s garden—and that record in sand  fast washing out, under  waves of happiness that were sweeping over it .  visitors were given  highest seat of honor, and as soon as Mr. Walters’ speech  finished, he introduced them to  school.  middle-aged  turned out to be a prodigious personage—no less a one than  county judge—altogether  most august creation these children  ever looked upon—and they wondered what kind of material he  made of—and they half wanted to hear  roar, and were half afraid he might, . He  from Constantinople, twelve miles away—so he  travelled, and seen  world—these very eyes  looked upon  county court-house—which  said to have a  roof.  awe which these reflections inspired  attested by  impressive silence and  ranks of staring eyes. This   great Judge Thatcher, brother of their own lawyer. Jeff Thatcher immediately went forward, to be familiar with  great  and be envied by  school. It would have been music to  soul to hear  whisperings: “Look at , ! He’s a going up there. —look! he’s a going to shake hands with —he is shaking hands with ! By jings, ’t  wish   Jeff?” Mr. Walters fell to “showing off,” with all sorts of official bustlings and activities, giving orders, delivering judgments, discharging directions here, there, everywhere that he could find a target.  librarian “showed off”—running hither and thither with  arms full of books and making a deal of  splutter and fuss that insect authority delights in.  young lady teachers “showed off”—bending sweetly over pupils that were lately being boxed, lifting pretty warning fingers at  little boys and patting good ones lovingly.  young gentlemen teachers “showed off” with small scoldings and other little displays of authority and fine attention to discipline—and most of  teachers, of both sexes, found business up at  library, by  pulpit; and it  business that frequently  to be done over again  or three times (with much seeming vexation).  little girls “showed off” in various ways, and  little boys “showed off” with such diligence that  air  thick with paper wads and  murmur of scufflings. And above it all  great   and beamed a majestic judicial smile upon all  house, and warmed himself in   of  own grandeur— he  “showing off,” . There  only one thing wanting to make Mr. Walters’ ecstasy complete, and that  a chance to deliver a Bible-prize and exhibit a prodigy. Several pupils  a  yellow tickets,  none  enough—he  been around among  star pupils inquiring. He would have given worlds, , to have that German  back again with a sound mind. And  at this moment, when hope  dead,  Sawyer came forward with nine yellow tickets, nine  tickets, and  blue ones, and demanded a Bible. This  a thunderbolt out of a clear . Walters   expecting an application from this source   next  years.  there  no getting around it—here were  certified checks, and they were good  their face.   therefore elevated to a place with  Judge and  other elect, and  great news  announced from headquarters. It   most stunning surprise of  decade, and so profound   sensation that it lifted   hero up to  judicial one’s altitude, and  school   marvels to gaze upon in place of one.  boys were all eaten up with envy— those that suffered  bitterest pangs were those  perceived  late that they themselves  contributed to this hated splendor by trading tickets to    wealth he  amassed in selling whitewashing privileges. These despised themselves, as being  dupes of a wily fraud, a guileful snake in  grass.  prize  delivered to  with as much effusion as  superintendent could pump up under  circumstances;  it lacked somewhat of  true gush,   poor fellow’s instinct taught  that there  a mystery here that could  well bear  light, perhaps; it  simply preposterous that this   warehoused  thousand sheaves of Scriptural wisdom on  premises—a dozen would strain  capacity, without a doubt. Amy Lawrence  proud and glad, and  tried to make   it in  face— he wouldn’t look.  wondered; then   just a grain troubled; next a  suspicion came and went—came again;  watched; a furtive glance told  worlds—and then  heart broke, and   jealous, and angry, and  tears came and  hated everybody.  most of all ( thought).   introduced to  Judge;   tongue  tied,  breath would hardly come,  heart quaked—partly because of  awful greatness of  ,  mainly because he   parent. He would have liked to fall down and worship , if it were in  dark.  Judge   hand on ’s head and called  a fine little , and asked  what  name .   stammered, gasped, and  it out: “.” “Oh, no,  —it is—” “Thomas.” “Ah, that’s it. I thought there  more to it, maybe. That’s very well.  ’ve another one I daresay, and ’ll tell it to me, ’t ?” “Tell  gentleman your other name, Thomas,” said Walters, “and  .  mustn’t forget your manners.” “Thomas Sawyer—.” “That’s it! That’s a good . Fine . Fine, manly little fellow.  thousand verses is a great many—very, very great many. And  never  be sorry   trouble  took to learn them;  knowledge is worth more than anything there is in  world; it’s what makes great  and good ; ’ll be a great  and a good  yourself, some , Thomas, and then ’ll look back and , It’s all owing to  precious Sunday-school privileges of my boyhood—it’s all owing to my dear teachers that taught me to learn—it’s all owing to  good superintendent,  encouraged me, and watched over me, and gave me a beautiful Bible—a splendid elegant Bible—to keep and have it all  my own, always—it’s all owing to right bringing up! That is what  will , Thomas—and  wouldn’t take any money  those  thousand verses—no indeed  wouldn’t. And   wouldn’t mind telling me and this lady some of  things ’ve learned—no, I know  wouldn’t— we are proud of little boys that learn. , no doubt  know  names of all  twelve disciples. ’t  tell us  names of  first  that were appointed?”   tugging at a button-hole and looking sheepish. He blushed, , and  eyes fell. Mr. Walters’ heart sank within . He said to himself, it is  possible that    answer  simplest question—   Judge ask ?  he felt obliged to speak up and : “Answer  gentleman, Thomas—’t be afraid.”  still hung fire. “ I know ’ll tell me,” said  lady. “ names of  first  disciples were—” “David And Goliah!”  us draw  curtain of charity over  rest of  scene. CHAPTER V ABOUT half-past   cracked bell of  small church began to ring, and presently  people began to gather   morning sermon.  Sunday-school children distributed themselves about  house and occupied pews with their parents, so as to be under supervision. Aunt Polly came, and  and  and Mary  with — being placed next  aisle, in order that he might be as  away from  open window and  seductive outside summer scenes as possible.  crowd filed up  aisles:  aged and needy postmaster,   seen better days;  mayor and  wife— they  a mayor there, among other unnecessaries;  justice of  peace;  widow Douglass, fair, smart, and forty, a generous, good-hearted soul and well-to-do,  hill mansion  only palace in  town, and  most hospitable and much  most lavish in  matter of festivities that St. Petersburg could boast;  bent and venerable Major and . Ward; lawyer Riverson,   notable from a distance; next  belle of  village, followed by a troop of lawn-clad and ribbon-decked young heart-breakers; then all  young clerks in town in a body— they  stood in  vestibule sucking their cane-heads, a circling wall of oiled and simpering admirers, till  last girl   their gantlet; and last of all came  Model , Willie Mufferson, taking as heedful care of  mother as if  were  glass. He always brought  mother to church, and   pride of all  matrons.  boys all hated , he  so good. And besides, he  been “thrown up to them” so much.  white handkerchief  hanging out of  pocket behind, as usual on Sundays—accidentally.   no handkerchief, and he looked upon boys   as snobs.  congregation being fully assembled, ,  bell rang once more, to warn laggards and stragglers, and then a solemn hush fell upon  church which  only broken by  tittering and whispering of  choir in  gallery.  choir always tittered and whispered all through service. There  once a church choir that   ill-bred,  I have forgotten where it , . It  a great many years ago, and I  scarcely remember anything about it,  I think it  in some foreign country.  minister gave out  hymn, and read it through with a relish, in a peculiar style which  much admired in that part of  country.  voice began on a medium  and climbed steadily up till it reached a certain point, where it bore with strong emphasis upon  topmost word and then plunged down as if from a spring-board: Shall I be -ri-ed   skies, on flow’ry beds of ease, Whilst others fight to   prize, and sail thro’ blood-y seas? He  regarded as a wonderful reader. At church “sociables” he  always called upon to read poetry; and when he  through,  ladies would lift up their hands and  them fall helplessly in their laps, and “wall” their eyes, and shake their heads, as much as to , “Words cannot express it; it is  beautiful,  beautiful  this mortal earth.” After  hymn  been sung,  . Mr. Sprague turned himself into a bulletin-board, and read off “notices” of meetings and societies and things till it seemed that  list would stretch out to  crack of doom—a queer custom which is still kept up in America, even in cities, away here in this age of abundant newspapers. Often,  less there is to justify a traditional custom,  harder it is to   of it. And   minister prayed. A good, generous prayer it , and went into details: it pleaded   church, and  little children of  church;   other churches of  village;   village itself;   county;   State;   State officers;   United States;   churches of  United States;  Congress;   President;   officers of  Government;  poor sailors, tossed by stormy seas;   oppressed millions groaning under  heel of European monarchies and Oriental despotisms;  such as have  light and  good tidings, and  have  eyes to   ears to hear withal;   heathen in   islands of  ; and closed with a supplication that  words he  about to speak might find grace and favor, and be as seed sown in fertile ground, yielding in time a grateful harvest of good. Amen. There  a rustling of dresses, and  standing congregation  down.   whose history this book relates   enjoy  prayer, he only endured it—if he even  that much. He  restive all through it; he kept tally of  details of  prayer, unconsciously— he   listening,  he knew  ground of old, and  clergyman’s regular route over it—and when a little trifle of  matter  interlarded,  ear detected it and  whole nature resented it; he considered additions unfair, and scoundrelly. In  midst of  prayer a    on  back of   in front of  and tortured  spirit by calmly rubbing its hands together, embracing its head with its arms, and polishing it so vigorously that it seemed to almost part company with  body, and  slender thread of a neck  exposed to view; scraping its wings with its hind legs and smoothing them to its body as if they  been coat-tails; going through its whole toilet as tranquilly as if it knew it  perfectly safe. As indeed it ;  as sorely as ’s hands itched to grab  it they   dare—he believed  soul would be instantly destroyed if he  such a thing while  prayer  going on.  with  closing sentence  hand began to curve and steal forward; and  instant  “Amen”  out    a prisoner of .  aunt detected  act and made   it go.  minister gave out  text and droned along monotonously through an argument that  so prosy that many a head by and by began to —and  it  an argument that dealt in limitless fire and brimstone and thinned  predestined elect down to a company so small as to be hardly worth  saving.  counted  pages of  sermon; after church he always knew  many pages there  been,  he seldom knew anything else about  discourse. However, this time he  really interested  a little while.  minister made a grand and moving picture of  assembling together of  world’s hosts at  millennium when  lion and  lamb should  down together and a little child should lead them.   pathos,  lesson,  moral of  great spectacle were lost upon  ; he only thought of  conspicuousness of  principal character before  on-looking nations;  face  with  thought, and he said to himself that he wished he could be that child, if it  a tame lion.  he lapsed into suffering again, as   argument  resumed. Presently he bethought  of a treasure he  and  it out. It  a large black beetle with formidable jaws—a “pinchbug,” he called it. It  in a percussion- .  first thing  beetle   to take  by  finger. A natural fillip followed,  beetle went floundering into  aisle and  on its back, and  hurt finger went into  ’s mouth.  beetle  there working its helpless legs, unable to turn over.  eyed it, and longed  it;  it  safe out of  reach. Other people uninterested in  sermon found relief in  beetle, and they eyed it . Presently a vagrant poodle  came idling along,  at heart, lazy with  summer softness and  quiet, weary of captivity, sighing  change. He spied  beetle;  drooping tail lifted and wagged. He surveyed  prize; walked around it; smelt at it from a safe distance; walked around it again; grew bolder, and took a closer smell; then lifted   and made a gingerly snatch at it, just missing it; made another, and another; began to enjoy  diversion; subsided to  stomach with  beetle between  paws, and continued  experiments; grew weary at last, and then indifferent and absent-minded.  head nodded, and little by little  chin descended and touched  enemy,  seized it. There  a sharp yelp, a flirt of  poodle’s head, and  beetle fell a couple of yards away, and  on its back once more.  neighboring spectators shook with a gentle inward , several faces went behind fans and hand-kerchiefs, and   entirely happy.   looked foolish, and probably felt so;  there  resentment in  heart, , and a craving  revenge. So he went to  beetle and began a wary attack on it again; jumping at it from every point of a circle, lighting with  fore-paws within an inch of  creature, making even closer snatches at it with  teeth, and jerking  head till  ears flapped again.  he grew tired once more, after a while; tried to amuse himself with a   found no relief; followed an ant around, with  nose close to  floor, and quickly wearied of that; yawned, sighed, forgot  beetle entirely, and  down on it. Then there  a wild yelp of agony and  poodle went sailing up  aisle;  yelps continued, and so   ; he crossed  house in front of  altar; he flew down  other aisle; he crossed before  doors; he clamored up  home-stretch;  anguish grew with  progress, till presently he   a woolly comet moving in its orbit with  gleam and  speed of light. At last  frantic sufferer sheered from its course, and sprang into its master’s ; he flung it out of  window, and  voice of distress quickly thinned away and died in  distance. By this time  whole church  -faced and suffocating with suppressed laughter, and  sermon  come to a dead standstill.  discourse  resumed presently,  it went lame and halting, all possibility of impressiveness being at an end;  even  gravest sentiments were constantly being received with a smothered burst of unholy mirth, under cover of some remote -back, as if  poor parson  said a rarely facetious thing. It  a genuine relief to  whole congregation when  ordeal  over and  benediction pronounced.  Sawyer went home quite cheerful, thinking to himself that there  some satisfaction about divine service when there  a  of variety in it. He   one marring thought; he  willing that   should play with  pinchbug,  he   think it  upright in  to carry it off. CHAPTER VI MONDAY morning found  Sawyer miserable. Monday morning always found  so—because it began another week’s slow suffering in school. He generally began that  with wishing he   no intervening holiday, it made  going into captivity and fetters again so much more odious.   thinking. Presently it occurred to  that he wished he  sick; then he could stay home from school. Here  a vague possibility. He canvassed  system. No ailment  found, and he investigated again. This time he thought he could detect colicky symptoms, and he began to encourage them with considerable hope.  they soon grew feeble, and presently died wholly away. He reflected further. Suddenly he discovered something. One of  upper front teeth  loose. This  lucky; he  about to begin to groan, as a “starter,” as he called it, when it occurred to  that if he came into court with that argument,  aunt would pull it out, and that would hurt. So he thought he would hold  tooth in reserve   present, and seek further. Nothing offered  some little time, and then he remembered hearing  doctor tell about a certain thing that laid up a patient   or three weeks and threatened to make  lose a finger. So   eagerly drew  sore  from under  sheet and held it up  inspection.   he   know  necessary symptoms. However, it seemed well worth while to chance it, so he fell to groaning with considerable spirit.   slept on unconscious.  groaned louder, and fancied that he began to feel pain in  . No result from .   panting with  exertions by this time. He took a rest and then swelled himself up and fetched a succession of admirable groans.  snored on.   aggravated. He said, “, !” and shook . This course worked well, and  began to groan again.  yawned, stretched, then brought himself up on  elbow with a snort, and began to stare at .  went on groaning.  said: “! , !” [No response.] “Here, ! ! What is  matter, ?” And he shook  and looked in  face anxiously.  moaned out: “Oh, ’t, . ’t joggle me.” “, what’s  matter, ? I must call auntie.” “No—never mind. It’ll be over by and by, maybe. ’t call anybody.” “ I must! ’t groan so, , it’s awful.  long  been this ?” “Hours. Ouch! Oh, ’t stir so, , ’ll kill me.” “,  didn’t  wake me sooner? Oh, , ’t! It makes my flesh crawl to hear . , what is  matter?” “I forgive  everything, . [Groan.] Everything ’ve ever done to me. When I’m gone—” “Oh, ,  ain’t dying, are ? ’t, —oh, ’t. Maybe—” “I forgive everybody, . [Groan.] Tell ’em so, . And ,  give my window-sash and my  with one eye to that  girl that’s come to town, and tell —”    snatched  clothes and gone.   suffering in reality, , so handsomely   imagination working, and so  groans  gathered quite a genuine tone.  flew downstairs and said: “Oh, Aunt Polly, come! ’s dying!” “Dying!” “’m. ’t wait—come quick!” “Rubbage! I ’t believe it!”   fled upstairs, nevertheless, with  and Mary at  heels. And  face grew white, , and   trembled. When  reached  bedside  gasped out: “, ! , what’s  matter with ?” “Oh, auntie, I’m—” “What’s  matter with —what is  matter with , child?” “Oh, auntie, my sore ’s mortified!”  old lady sank down into a chair and laughed a little, then cried a little, then  both together. This restored  and  said: “, what a turn   give me.   shut up that nonsense and climb out of this.”  groans ceased and  pain vanished from  .   felt a little foolish, and he said: “Aunt Polly, it seemed mortified, and it hurt so I never minded my tooth at all.” “Your tooth, indeed! What’s  matter with your tooth?” “One of them’s loose, and it aches perfectly awful.” “There, there, , ’t begin that groaning again. Open your mouth. Well—your tooth is loose,  ’re  going to  about that. Mary,  me a silk thread, and a chunk of fire out of  kitchen.”  said: “Oh, please, auntie, ’t pull it out. It ’t hurt any more. I wish I  never stir if it does. Please ’t, auntie. I ’t want to stay home from school.” “Oh,  ’t, ’t ? So all this   because  thought ’d  to stay home from school and go a-fishing? , , I love  so, and  seem to  every    to break my old heart with your outrageousness.” By this time  dental instruments were ready.  old lady made one end of  silk thread fast to ’s tooth with a loop and tied  other to  bedpost. Then  seized  chunk of fire and suddenly thrust it almost into  ’s face.  tooth hung dangling by  bedpost, .  all trials bring their compensations. As  wended to school after breakfast, he   envy of every  he  because   in  upper  of teeth enabled  to expectorate in a  and admirable . He gathered quite a following of lads interested in  exhibition; and one that    finger and  been a centre of fascination and homage up to this time,  found himself suddenly without an adherent, and shorn of  glory.  heart  heavy, and he said with a disdain which he   feel that it wasn’t anything to spit like  Sawyer;  another  said, “Sour grapes!” and he wandered away a dismantled hero. Shortly  came upon  juvenile pariah of  village, Huckleberry Finn,  of  town drunkard. Huckleberry  cordially hated and dreaded by all  mothers of  town, because he  idle and lawless and vulgar and —and because all their children admired  so, and delighted in  forbidden society, and wished they dared to be like .   like  rest of  respectable boys, in that he envied Huckleberry  gaudy outcast condition, and  under strict orders  to play with . So he played with  every time he  a chance. Huckleberry  always dressed in  cast-off clothes of full-grown , and they were in perennial bloom and fluttering with rags.    a vast ruin with a wide crescent lopped out of its brim;  coat, when he wore one, hung nearly to  heels and   rearward buttons  down  back;  one suspender supported  trousers;  seat of  trousers bagged  and contained nothing,  fringed legs dragged in  dirt when  rolled up. Huckleberry came and went, at  own free will. He slept on doorsteps in fine weather and in empty hogsheads in ; he   have to go to school or to church, or call any being master or obey anybody; he could go fishing or swimming when and where he chose, and stay as long as it suited ; nobody forbade  to fight; he could  up as late as he pleased; he  always  first  that went barefoot in  spring and  last to resume leather in  fall; he never  to wash,   on clean clothes; he could swear wonderfully. In a word, everything that goes to make life precious that  . So thought every harassed, hampered, respectable  in St. Petersburg.  hailed  romantic outcast: “Hello, Huckleberry!” “Hello yourself, and    like it.” “What’s that  ?” “Dead .” “Lemme  , Huck. My, he’s pretty stiff. Where’d   ?” “Bought  off’n a .” “What   give?” “I give a blue ticket and a bladder that I  at  slaughter-house.” “Where’d    blue ticket?” “Bought it off’n  Rogers  weeks ago  a hoop-stick.” “—what is dead cats good , Huck?” “Good ? Cure warts with.” “No! Is that so? I know something that’s better.” “I   ’t. What is it?” “, spunk-water.” “Spunk-water! I wouldn’t give a dern  spunk-water.” “ wouldn’t, wouldn’t ? D’ ever  it?” “No, I hain’t.   Tanner .” “ told  so!” “, he told Jeff Thatcher, and Jeff told Johnny Baker, and Johnny told  Hollis, and  told  Rogers, and  told a nigger, and  nigger told me. There !” “Well, what of it? They’ll all . Leastways all   nigger. I ’t know .  I never  a nigger that wouldn’t . Shucks!   tell me   Tanner done it, Huck.” “, he took and dipped  hand in a rotten stump where  rain-water .” “In  daytime?” “Certainly.” “With  face to  stump?” “. Least I reckon so.” “ he  anything?” “I ’t reckon he . I ’t know.” “Aha! Talk about trying to cure warts with spunk-water such a blame fool  as that! , that ain’t a-going to do any good.   to go all by yourself, to  middle of  woods, where  know there’s a spunk-water stump, and just as it’s midnight  back up against  stump and  your hand in and : ‘Barley-corn, barley-corn, injun-meal shorts, Spunk-water, spunk-water, swaller these warts,’ and then walk away quick, eleven steps, with your eyes shut, and then turn around three times and walk home without speaking to anybody. Because if  speak  charm’s busted.” “Well, that sounds like a good ;  that ain’t    Tanner done.” “No, ,    he didn’t, becuz he’s  wartiest  in this town; and he wouldn’t have a wart on  if he’d knowed  to work spunk-water. I’ve took off thousands of warts off of my hands that , Huck. I play with frogs so much that I’ve always  considerable many warts. Sometimes I take ’em off with a bean.” “, bean’s good. I’ve done that.” “Have ? What’s your ?” “ take and split  bean, and   wart so as to  some blood, and then    blood on one piece of  bean and take and  a hole and bury it ’bout midnight at  crossroads in  dark of  moon, and then  burn up  rest of  bean.   that piece that’s   blood on it will keep drawing and drawing, trying to fetch  other piece to it, and so that helps  blood to draw  wart, and pretty soon off  comes.” “, that’s it, Huck—that’s it; though when ’re burying it if   ‘Down bean; off wart; come no more to bother me!’ it’s better. That’s    Harper does, and he’s been nearly to Coonville and most everywheres.  — do  cure ’em with dead cats?” “,  take your  and go and  in  grave-yard ’long about midnight when somebody that  wicked  been buried; and when it’s midnight a devil will come, or maybe  or three,   ’t  ’em,   only hear something like  wind, or maybe hear ’em talk; and when they’re taking that feller away,  heave your  after ’em and , ‘Devil follow corpse,  follow devil, warts follow , I’m done with ye!’ That’ll fetch any wart.” “Sounds right. D’ ever  it, Huck?” “No,  old Mother Hopkins told me.” “Well, I reckon it’s so, then. Becuz they  ’s a witch.” “! , , I know  is.  witched .  says so  own self. He come along one , and he    a-witching , so he took up a rock, and if  hadn’t dodged, he’d a  . Well, that very night he rolled off’n a shed wher’ he  a layin drunk, and broke  arm.” “, that’s awful.   he know   a-witching ?” “Lord,   tell, easy.  says when they keep looking at  right stiddy, they’re a-witching . Specially if they mumble. Becuz when they mumble they’re saying  Lord’s Prayer backards.” “, Hucky, when  going to   ?” “To-night. I reckon they’ll come after old Hoss Williams to-night.” “ they buried  Saturday. Didn’t they   Saturday night?” “,   talk!  could their charms work till midnight?—and then it’s Sunday. Devils ’t slosh around much of a Sunday, I ’t reckon.” “I never thought of that. That’s so. Lemme go with ?” “Of course—if  ain’t afeard.” “Afeard! ’Tain’t likely. Will  meow?” “—and  meow back, if   a chance. Last time,  ’ me a-meowing around till old Hays went to throwing rocks at me and says ‘Dern that !’ and so I hove a brick through  window— ’t  tell.” “I ’t. I couldn’t meow that night, becuz auntie  watching me,  I’ll meow this time. —what’s that?” “Nothing  a tick.” “Where’d   ?” “Out in  woods.” “What’ll  take  ?” “I ’t know. I ’t want to sell .” “All right. It’s a mighty small tick, anyway.” “Oh, anybody   a tick down that ’t belong to them. I’m satisfied with it. It’s a good enough tick  me.” “, there’s ticks a plenty. I could have a thousand of ’em if I wanted to.” “Well,  ’t ? Becuz  know mighty well  ’t. This is a pretty early tick, I reckon. It’s  first one I’ve seen this year.” “, Huck—I’ll give  my tooth  .” “Less  it.”   out a  of paper and carefully unrolled it. Huckleberry viewed it wistfully.  temptation  very strong. At last he said: “Is it genuwyne?”  lifted   and showed  vacancy. “Well, all right,” said Huckleberry, “it’s a trade.”  enclosed  tick in  percussion-  that  lately been  pinchbug’s prison, and  boys separated, each feeling wealthier than before. When  reached  little isolated frame school-house, he strode in briskly, with  manner of one   come with all honest speed. He hung   on a  and flung himself into  seat with business-like alacrity.  master, throned on high in  great splint-bottom arm-chair,  dozing, lulled by  drowsy  of study.  interruption roused . “Thomas Sawyer!”  knew that when  name  pronounced in full, it meant trouble. “!” “Come up here. , ,  are  late again, as usual?”   about to take refuge in a , when he   long tails of yellow hair hanging down a back that he recognized by  electric sympathy of love; and by that form   only vacant place on  girls’ side of  school-house. He instantly said: “I stopped to talk with Huckleberry Finn!”  master’s pulse stood still, and he stared helplessly.  buzz of study ceased.  pupils wondered if this foolhardy   lost  mind.  master said: “—  what?” “Stopped to talk with Huckleberry Finn.” There  no mistaking  words. “Thomas Sawyer, this is  most astounding confession I have ever listened to. No mere ferule will answer  this offence. Take off your jacket.”  master’s arm performed until it  tired and  stock of switches notably diminished. Then  order followed: “, , go and  with  girls! And  this be a warning to .”  titter that rippled around  room appeared to abash  ,  in reality that result  caused rather more by  worshipful awe of  unknown idol and  dread pleasure that  in  high good fortune. He  down upon  end of  pine bench and  girl hitched herself away from  with a toss of  head. Nudges and winks and whispers traversed  room,    still, with  arms upon  long,  desk before , and seemed to study  book. By and by attention ceased from , and  accustomed school murmur rose upon  dull air once more. Presently   began to steal furtive glances at  girl.  observed it, “made a mouth” at  and gave   back of  head   space of a minute. When  cautiously faced around again, a peach  before .  thrust it away.  gently  it back.  thrust it away again,  with less animosity.  patiently returned it to its place. Then   it remain.  scrawled on  slate, “Please take it—I  more.”  girl glanced at  words,  made no sign.    began to draw something on  slate, hiding  work with  left hand.  a time  girl refused to notice;   human curiosity presently began to manifest itself by hardly perceptible signs.   worked on, apparently unconscious.  girl made a sort of -committal attempt to ,      betray that he  aware of it. At last  gave in and hesitatingly whispered: “ me  it.”  partly uncovered a dismal caricature of a house with  gable ends to it and a corkscrew of smoke issuing from  chimney. Then  girl’s interest began to fasten itself upon  work and  forgot everything else. When it  finished,  gazed a moment, then whispered: “It’s nice—make a .”  artist erected a  in  front yard, that resembled a derrick. He could have stepped over  house;   girl   hypercritical;   satisfied with  monster, and whispered: “It’s a beautiful — make me coming along.”  drew an hour-glass with a full moon and straw limbs to it and armed  spreading fingers with a portentous .  girl said: “It’s ever so nice—I wish I could draw.” “It’s easy,” whispered , “I’ll learn .” “Oh, will ? When?” “At noon. Do  go home to dinner?” “I’ll stay if  will.” “Good—that’s a whack. What’s your name?” “Becky Thatcher. What’s yours? Oh, I know. It’s Thomas Sawyer.” “That’s  name they lick me by. I’m  when I’m good.  call me , will ?” “.”   began to scrawl something on  slate, hiding  words from  girl.     backward this time.  begged to .  said: “Oh, it ain’t anything.” “ it is.” “No it ain’t.  ’t want to .” “ I do, indeed I do. Please  me.” “’ll tell.” “No I ’t—deed and deed and double deed ’t.” “ ’t tell anybody at all? Ever, as long as  live?” “No, I ’t ever tell anybody.   me.” “Oh,  ’t want to !” “ that  treat me so, I will .” And    small hand upon  and a little scuffle ensued,  pretending to resist in earnest  letting  hand slip by degrees till these words were revealed: “I love .” “Oh,   thing!” And    hand a smart ,  reddened and looked pleased, nevertheless. Just at this juncture   felt a slow, fateful grip closing on  ear, and a steady lifting impulse. In that wise he  borne across  house and deposited in  own seat, under a peppering fire of giggles from  whole school. Then  master stood over  during a  awful moments, and finally moved away to  throne without saying a word.  although ’s ear tingled,  heart  jubilant. As  school quieted down  made an honest effort to study,   turmoil within    great. In turn he took  place in  reading class and made a botch of it; then in  geography class and turned lakes into mountains, mountains into rivers, and rivers into continents, till chaos  come again; then in  spelling class, and  “turned down,” by a succession of mere baby words, till he brought up at  foot and yielded up  pewter medal which he  worn with ostentation  months. CHAPTER   harder  tried to fasten  mind on  book,  more  ideas wandered. So at last, with a sigh and a yawn, he gave it up. It seemed to  that  noon recess would never come.  air  utterly dead. There   a breath stirring. It   sleepiest of sleepy days.  drowsing murmur of  five and twenty studying scholars soothed  soul like  spell that is in  murmur of bees. Away off in  flaming sunshine, Cardiff Hill lifted its soft green sides through a shimmering veil of heat, tinted with  purple of distance; a  birds floated on lazy wing high in  air; no other living thing  visible  some cows, and they were asleep. ’s heart ached to be free, or else to have something of interest to do to pass  dreary time.  hand wandered into  pocket and  face  up with a glow of gratitude that  prayer, though he   know it. Then furtively  percussion-  came out. He released  tick and   on  long flat desk.  creature probably glowed with a gratitude that amounted to prayer, , at this moment,  it  premature:  when he started thankfully to travel off,  turned  aside with a  and made  take a  direction. ’s bosom friend  next , suffering just as   been, and  he  deeply and gratefully interested in this entertainment in an instant. This bosom friend   Harper.   boys were sworn friends all  week, and embattled enemies on Saturdays.  took a  out of  lapel and began to assist in exercising  prisoner.  sport grew in interest momently. Soon  said that they were interfering with each other, and neither getting  fullest benefit of  tick. So he  ’s slate on  desk and drew a line down  middle of it from  to bottom. “,” said he, “as long as he is on your side   stir  up and I’ll   alone;  if     away and  on my side, ’re to leave  alone as long as I  keep  from crossing over.” “All right, go ahead; start  up.”  tick escaped from , presently, and crossed  equator.  harassed  awhile, and then he  away and crossed back again. This change of base occurred often. While one   worrying  tick with absorbing interest,  other would look on with interest as strong,   heads bowed together over  slate, and   souls dead to all things else. At last luck seemed to settle and abide with .  tick tried this, that, and  other course, and  as excited and as anxious as  boys themselves,  time and again just as he would have victory in  very grasp, so to speak, and ’s fingers would be twitching to begin, ’s  would deftly head  off, and keep possession. At last  could stand it no longer.  temptation   strong. So he reached out and lent a hand with  .   angry in a moment. Said he: “,    alone.” “I only just want to stir  up a little, .” “No, , it ain’t fair;  just   alone.” “Blame it, I ain’t going to stir  much.” “  alone, I tell .” “I ’t!” “ shall—he’s on my side of  line.” “Look here,  Harper, whose is that tick?” “I ’t care whose tick he is—he’s on my side of  line, and  ’n’t touch .” “Well, I’ll just  I will, though. He’s my tick and I’ll do what I blame please with , or !” A tremendous whack came down on ’s shoulders, and its duplicate on ’s; and   space of  minutes  dust continued to  from   jackets and  whole school to enjoy it.  boys  been  absorbed to notice  hush that  stolen upon  school awhile before when  master came tiptoeing down  room and stood over them. He  contemplated a good part of  performance before he contributed   of variety to it. When school broke up at noon,  flew to Becky Thatcher, and whispered in  ear: “ on your bonnet and  on ’re going home; and when   to  corner, give  rest of ’em  slip, and turn down through  lane and come back. I’ll go  other  and come it over ’em  same .” So  one went off with one group of scholars, and  other with another. In a little while    at  bottom of  lane, and when they reached  school they  it all to themselves. Then they  together, with a slate before them, and  gave Becky  pencil and held  hand in , guiding it, and so created another surprising house. When  interest in art began to wane,   fell to talking.   swimming in bliss. He said: “Do  love rats?” “No! I hate them!” “Well, I do, —live ones.  I mean dead ones, to swing round your head with a string.” “No, I ’t care  rats much, anyway. What I like is chewing-.” “Oh, I should  so! I wish I  some .” “Do ? I’ve  some. I’ll   chew it awhile,   must give it back to me.” That  agreeable, so they chewed it turn about, and dangled their legs against  bench in excess of contentment. “  ever at a circus?” said . “, and my pa’s going to take me again some time, if I’m good.” “I been to  circus three or four times—lots of times. Church ain’t shucks to a circus. There’s things going on at a circus all  time. I’m going to be a clown in a circus when I grow up.” “Oh, are ! That will be nice. They’re so lovely, all spotted up.” “, that’s so. And they  slathers of money—most a dollar a ,  Rogers says. , Becky,   ever engaged?” “What’s that?” “, engaged to be married.” “No.” “Would  like to?” “I reckon so. I ’t know. What is it like?” “Like?  it ain’t like anything.  only just tell a   ’t ever have anybody  , ever ever ever, and then  kiss and that’s all. Anybody  do it.” “Kiss? What do  kiss ?” “, that,  know, is to—well, they always do that.” “Everybody?” “, , everybody that’s in love with each other. Do  remember what I wrote on  slate?” “Ye—.” “What  it?” “I ’n’t tell .” “Shall I tell ?” “Ye—— some other time.” “No, .” “No,  —to-morrow.” “Oh, no, . Please, Becky—I’ll whisper it, I’ll whisper it ever so easy.” Becky hesitating,  took silence  consent, and passed  arm about  waist and whispered  tale ever so softly, with  mouth close to  ear. And then he added: “  whisper it to me—just  same.”  resisted,  a while, and then said: “ turn your face away so  ’t , and then I will.   mustn’t ever tell anybody—will , ?   ’t, will ?” “No, indeed, indeed I ’t. , Becky.” He turned  face away.  bent timidly around till  breath stirred  curls and whispered, “I—love—!” Then  sprang away and  around and around  desks and benches, with  after , and took refuge in a corner at last, with  little white apron to  face.  clasped  about  neck and pleaded: “, Becky, it’s all done—all over   kiss. ’t  be afraid of that—it ain’t anything at all. Please, Becky.” And he tugged at  apron and  hands. By and by  gave up, and   hands drop;  face, all glowing with  struggle, came up and submitted.  kissed   lips and said: “ it’s all done, Becky. And always after this,  know,  ain’t ever to love anybody  me, and  ain’t ever to marry anybody  me, ever never and forever. Will ?” “No, I’ll never love anybody  , , and I’ll never marry anybody  —and  ain’t to ever marry anybody  me, either.” “Certainly. Of course. That’s part of it. And always coming to school or when we’re going home, ’re to walk with me, when there ain’t anybody looking—and  choose me and I choose  at parties, because that’s    do when ’re engaged.” “It’s so nice. I never heard of it before.” “Oh, it’s ever so ! , me and Amy Lawrence—”   eyes told   blunder and he stopped, confused. “Oh, ! Then I ain’t  first ’ve ever been engaged to!”  child began to .  said: “Oh, ’t , Becky, I ’t care   any more.” “,  do, — know  do.”  tried to   arm about  neck,   pushed  away and turned  face to  wall, and went on crying.  tried again, with soothing words in  mouth, and  repulsed again. Then  pride  up, and he strode away and went outside. He stood about, restless and uneasy,  a while, glancing at  door, every  and then, hoping  would repent and come to find .    . Then he began to feel badly and fear that he  in  wrong. It  a hard struggle with  to make  advances, ,  he nerved himself to it and entered.   still standing back there in  corner, sobbing, with  face to  wall. ’s heart smote . He went to  and stood a moment,  knowing exactly  to proceed. Then he said hesitatingly: “Becky, I—I ’t care  anybody  .” No reply— sobs. “Becky”—pleadingly. “Becky, ’t   something?” More sobs.   out  chiefest jewel, a brass knob from   of an andiron, and passed it around  so that  could  it, and said: “Please, Becky, ’t  take it?”  struck it to  floor. Then  marched out of  house and over  hills and  away, to return to school no more that . Presently Becky began to suspect.   to  door; he   in sight;  flew around to  play-yard; he   there. Then  called: “! Come back, !”  listened intently,  there  no answer.   no companions  silence and loneliness. So   down to  again and upbraid herself; and by this time  scholars began to gather again, and   to hide  griefs and still  broken heart and take up  cross of a long, dreary, aching afternoon, with none among  strangers about  to exchange sorrows with. CHAPTER VIII  dodged hither and thither through lanes until he  well out of  track of returning scholars, and then fell into a moody . He crossed a small “branch”  or three times, because of a prevailing juvenile superstition that to cross water baffled pursuit. Half an hour later he  disappearing behind  Douglas mansion on  summit of Cardiff Hill, and  school-house  hardly distinguishable away off in  valley behind . He entered a dense wood, picked  pathless  to  centre of it, and  down on a mossy spot under a spreading oak. There   even a zephyr stirring;  dead noonday heat  even stilled  songs of  birds; nature  in a trance that  broken by no sound   occasional -off hammering of a wood-pecker, and this seemed to render  pervading silence and sense of loneliness  more profound.  ’s soul  steeped in melancholy;  feelings were in happy accord with  surroundings. He  long with  elbows on  knees and  chin in  hands, meditating. It seemed to  that life   a trouble, at best, and he more than half envied Jimmy Hodges, so lately released; it must be very peaceful, he thought, to  and slumber and dream forever and ever, with  wind whispering through  trees and caressing  grass and  flowers over  grave, and nothing to bother and grieve about, ever any more. If he only  a clean Sunday-school record he could be willing to go, and be done with it all.  as to this girl. What  he done? Nothing. He  meant  best in  world, and been treated like a —like a very .  would be sorry some —maybe when it   late. Ah, if he could only  temporarily!   elastic heart of youth cannot be compressed into one constrained shape long at a time.  presently began to drift insensibly back into  concerns of this life again. What if he turned  back, , and disappeared mysteriously? What if he went away—ever so  away, into unknown countries beyond  seas—and never came back any more!  would  feel then!  idea of being a clown recurred to  , only to fill  with disgust.  frivolity and jokes and spotted tights were an offense, when they intruded themselves upon a spirit that  exalted into  vague august realm of  romantic. No, he would be a soldier, and return after long years, all -worn and illustrious. No—better still, he would join  Indians, and hunt buffaloes and go on  warpath in  mountain ranges and  trackless great plains of   West, and away in  future come back a great chief, bristling with feathers, hideous with paint, and prance into Sunday-school, some drowsy summer morning, with a blood-curdling -whoop, and sear  eyeballs of all  companions with unappeasable envy.  no, there  something gaudier even than this. He would be a pirate! That  it!   future  plain before , and glowing with unimaginable splendor.   name would fill  world, and make people shudder!  gloriously he would go plowing  dancing seas, in  long, , black-hulled racer,  Spirit of  Storm, with  grisly flag flying at  fore! And at  zenith of  fame,  he would suddenly appear at  old village and stalk into church, brown and weather-beaten, in  black velvet doublet and trunks,  great jack-boots,  crimson sash,  belt bristling with horse-pistols,  crime-rusted cutlass at  side,  slouch  with waving plumes,  black flag unfurled, with  skull and crossbones on it, and hear with swelling ecstasy  whisperings, “It’s  Sawyer  Pirate!— Black Avenger of  Spanish Main!” , it  settled;  career  determined. He would  away from home and enter upon it. He would start  very next morning. Therefore he must  begin to  ready. He would collect  resources together. He went to a rotten  near at hand and began to  under one end of it with  Barlow knife. He soon struck wood that sounded hollow. He   hand there and uttered this incantation impressively: “What hasn’t come here, come! What’s here, stay here!” Then he scraped away  dirt, and exposed a pine shingle. He took it up and disclosed a shapely little treasure-house whose bottom and sides were of shingles. In it  a marble. ’s astonishment  bound-less! He scratched  head with a perplexed air, and said: “Well, that beats anything!” Then he tossed  marble away pettishly, and stood cogitating.  truth , that a superstition of   failed, here, which he and all  comrades  always looked upon as infallible. If  buried a marble with certain necessary incantations, and left it alone a fortnight, and then opened  place with  incantation he  just used,  would find that all  marbles   ever lost  gathered themselves together there, meantime, no matter  widely they  been separated.  , this thing  actually and unquestionably failed. ’s whole structure of faith  shaken to its foundations. He  many a time heard of this thing succeeding  never of its failing before. It   occur to  that he  tried it several times before, himself,  could never find  hiding-places afterward. He puzzled over  matter some time, and finally decided that some witch  interfered and broken  charm. He thought he would satisfy himself on that point; so he searched around till he found a small sandy spot with a little funnel-shaped depression in it. He laid himself down and   mouth close to this depression and called— “Doodle-, doodle-, tell me what I want to know! Doodle-, doodle-, tell me what I want to know!”  sand began to work, and presently a small black  appeared  a second and then darted under again in a fright. “He dasn’t tell! So it  a witch that done it. I just knowed it.” He well knew  futility of trying to contend against witches, so he gave up discouraged.  it occurred to  that he might as well have  marble he  just thrown away, and therefore he went and made a patient search  it.  he could  find it.  he went back to  treasure-house and carefully placed himself just as he  been standing when he tossed  marble away; then he took another marble from  pocket and tossed it in  same , saying: “Brother, go find your brother!” He watched where it stopped, and went there and looked.  it must have fallen short or gone  ; so he tried twice more.  last repetition  successful.   marbles  within a foot of each other. Just here  blast of a   trumpet came faintly down  green aisles of  forest.  flung off  jacket and trousers, turned a suspender into a belt, raked away some brush behind  rotten , disclosing a rude  and arrow, a lath sword and a  trumpet, and in a moment  seized these things and bounded away, barelegged, with fluttering shirt. He presently halted under a great elm, blew an answering blast, and then began to tiptoe and look warily out, this  and that. He said cautiously—to an imaginary company: “Hold, my merry ! Keep  till I blow.”  appeared  Harper, as airily clad and elaborately armed as .  called: “Hold!  comes here into Sherwood Forest without my pass?” “ of Guisborne wants no ’s pass.  art thou that—that—” “Dares to hold such language,” said , prompting— they talked “by  book,” from memory. “ art thou that dares to hold such language?” “I, indeed! I am Robin Hood, as  caitiff carcase soon shall know.” “Then art thou indeed that famous outlaw? Right gladly will I dispute with thee  passes of  merry wood. Have at thee!” They took their lath swords, dumped their other traps on  ground, struck a fencing attitude, foot to foot, and began a grave, careful combat, “ up and  down.” Presently  said: “, if ’ve   hang, go it lively!” So they “went it lively,” panting and perspiring with  work. By and by  shouted: “Fall! fall!  ’t  fall?” “I ’n’t!  ’t  fall yourself? ’re getting  worst of it.” “, that ain’t anything. I ’t fall; that ain’t   it is in  book.  book says, ‘Then with one back-handed stroke he slew poor  of Guisborne.’ ’re to turn around and  me   in  back.” There  no getting around  authorities, so  turned, received  whack and fell. “,” said , getting up, “  to  me kill . That’s fair.” “, I ’t do that, it ain’t in  book.” “Well, it’s blamed mean—that’s all.” “Well, , ,   be Friar Tuck or Much  miller’s , and  me with a quarter-staff; or I’ll be  Sheriff of Nottingham and  be Robin Hood a little while and kill me.” This  satisfactory, and so these adventures were carried out. Then  became Robin Hood again, and  allowed by  treacherous  to bleed  strength away through  neglected wound. And at last , representing a whole tribe of weeping outlaws, dragged  sadly forth, gave   into  feeble hands, and  said, “Where this arrow falls, there bury poor Robin Hood under  greenwood tree.” Then he shot  arrow and fell back and would have died,  he  on a nettle and sprang up  gaily  a corpse.  boys dressed themselves,  their accoutrements, and went off grieving that there were no outlaws any more, and wondering what modern civilization could claim to have done to compensate  their loss. They said they would rather be outlaws a year in Sherwood Forest than President of  United States forever. CHAPTER IX AT half-past nine, that night,  and  were sent to , as usual. They said their prayers, and   soon asleep.   awake and waited, in restless impatience. When it seemed to  that it must be nearly daylight, he heard  clock strike ! This  despair. He would have tossed and fidgeted, as  nerves demanded,  he  afraid he might wake . So he  still, and stared up into  dark. Everything  dismally still. By and by, out of  stillness, little, scarcely perceptible noises began to emphasize themselves.  ticking of  clock began to bring itself into notice. Old beams began to crack mysteriously.  stairs creaked faintly. Evidently spirits were abroad. A measured, muffled snore issued from Aunt Polly’s chamber. And   tiresome chirping of a cricket that no human ingenuity could locate, began. Next  ghastly ticking of a death-watch in  wall at  ’s head made  shudder—it meant that somebody’s days were numbered. Then  howl of a -off  rose on  night air, and  answered by a fainter howl from a remoter distance.   in an agony. At last he  satisfied that time  ceased and eternity begun; he began to doze, in spite of himself;  clock chimed eleven,  he   hear it. And then there came, mingling with  half-formed dreams, a most melancholy caterwauling.  raising of a neighboring window disturbed . A  of “Scat!  devil!” and  crash of an empty bottle against  back of  aunt’s woodshed brought  wide awake, and a single minute later he  dressed and out of  window and creeping along  roof of  “ell” on all fours. He “meow’d” with caution once or twice, as he went; then jumped to  roof of  woodshed and thence to  ground. Huckleberry Finn  there, with  dead .  boys moved off and disappeared in  gloom. At  end of half an hour they were wading through  tall grass of  graveyard. It  a graveyard of  old-fashioned Western kind. It  on a hill, about a mile and a half from  village. It  a crazy board fence around it, which leaned inward in places, and outward  rest of  time,  stood upright nowhere. Grass and weeds grew rank over  whole cemetery. All  old graves were sunken in, there   a tombstone on  place; round-topped, worm-eaten boards staggered over  graves, leaning  support and finding none. “Sacred to  memory of” So-and-So  been painted on them once,  it could no longer have been read, on  most of them, , even if there  been light. A faint wind moaned through  trees, and  feared it might be  spirits of  dead, complaining at being disturbed.  boys talked little, and only under their breath,   time and  place and  pervading solemnity and silence oppressed their spirits. They found  sharp  heap they were seeking, and ensconced themselves within  protection of three great elms that grew in a bunch within a  feet of  grave. Then they waited in silence  what seemed a long time.  hooting of a distant owl  all  sound that troubled  dead stillness. ’s reflections grew oppressive. He must force some talk. So he said in a whisper: “Hucky, do  believe  dead people like it  us to be here?” Huckleberry whispered: “I wisht I knowed. It’s awful solemn like, ain’t it?” “I  it is.” There  a considerable pause, while  boys canvassed this matter inwardly. Then  whispered: “, Hucky—do  reckon Hoss Williams hears us talking?” “O’ course he does. Least  sperrit does.” , after a pause: “I wish I’d said Mister Williams.  I never meant any harm. Everybody calls  Hoss.” “A body ’t be  partic’  they talk ’bout these- dead people, .” This  a damper, and conversation died again. Presently  seized  comrade’s arm and said: “Sh!” “What is it, ?” And   clung together with beating hearts. “Sh! There ’ again! Didn’t  hear it?” “I—” “There!   hear it.” “Lord, , they’re coming! They’re coming, sure. What’ll we do?” “I dono. Think they’ll  us?” “Oh, , they   in  dark, same as cats. I wisht I hadn’t come.” “Oh, ’t be afeard. I ’t believe they’ll bother us. We ain’t doing any harm. If we keep perfectly still, maybe they ’t notice us at all.” “I’ll  to, , , Lord, I’m all of a shiver.” “Listen!”  boys bent their heads together and scarcely breathed. A muffled sound of voices floated up from   end of  graveyard. “Look!  there!” whispered . “What is it?” “It’s devil-fire. Oh, , this is awful.” Some vague figures approached through  gloom, swinging an old-fashioned  lantern that freckled  ground with innumerable little spangles of light. Presently Huckleberry whispered with a shudder: “It’s  devils sure enough. Three of ’em! Lordy, , we’re goners!   pray?” “I’ll ,  ’t  be afeard. They ain’t going to hurt us. ‘ I  me down to sleep, I—‘” “Sh!” “What is it, Huck?” “They’re humans! One of ’em is, anyway. One of ’em’s old Muff Potter’s voice.” “No—’tain’t so, is it?” “I  I know it. ’t  stir  budge. He ain’t sharp enough to notice us. Drunk,  same as usual, likely—blamed old !” “All right, I’ll keep still.  they’re stuck. ’t find it. Here they come again.  they’re . Cold again.  again.  ! They’re p’inted right, this time. , Huck, I know another o’ them voices; it’s Injun .” “That’s so—that murderin’ half-breed! I’d druther they  devils a dern sight. What  they be up to?”  whisper died wholly out, ,   three   reached  grave and stood within a  feet of  boys’ hiding-place. “Here it is,” said  third voice; and  owner of it held  lantern up and revealed  face of young Doctor Robinson. Potter and Injun  were carrying a handbarrow with a rope and a couple of shovels on it. They cast down their load and began to open  grave.  doctor   lantern at  head of  grave and came and  down with  back against one of  elm trees. He  so close  boys could have touched . “Hurry, !” he said, in a  voice; “ moon might come out at any moment.” They growled a response and went on digging.  some time there  no noise   grating sound of  spades discharging their freight of mould and gravel. It  very monotonous. Finally a spade struck upon  coffin with a dull woody accent, and within another minute or     hoisted it out on  ground. They pried off   with their shovels,  out  body and dumped it rudely on  ground.  moon drifted from behind  clouds and exposed  pallid face.  barrow   ready and  corpse placed on it, covered with a blanket, and bound to its place with  rope. Potter took out a large spring-knife and  off  dangling end of  rope and then said: “  cussed thing’s ready, Sawbones, and ’ll just out with another five, or here  stays.” “That’s  talk!” said Injun . “Look here, what does this mean?” said  doctor. “ required your  in advance, and I’ve paid .” “, and  done more than that,” said Injun , approaching  doctor,    standing. “Five years ago  drove me away from your father’s kitchen one night, when I come to ask  something to eat, and  said I warn’t there  any good; and when I swore I’d  even with  if it took a hundred years, your father  me jailed  a vagrant.   think I’d forget?  Injun blood ain’t in me  nothing. And  I’ve  , and   to settle,  know!” He  threatening  doctor, with  fist in  face, by this time.  doctor struck out suddenly and stretched  ruffian on  ground. Potter dropped  knife, and exclaimed: “Here, , ’t   my pard!” and  next moment he  grappled with  doctor and   were struggling with might and main, trampling  grass and tearing  ground with their heels. Injun  sprang to  feet,  eyes flaming with passion, snatched up Potter’s knife, and went creeping, catlike and stooping, round and round about  combatants, seeking an opportunity. All at once  doctor flung himself free, seized  heavy headboard of Williams’ grave and felled Potter to  earth with it—and in  same instant  half-breed   chance and drove  knife to  hilt in  young ’s breast. He reeled and fell partly upon Potter, flooding  with  blood, and in  same moment  clouds blotted out  dreadful spectacle and   frightened boys went speeding away in  dark. Presently, when  moon emerged again, Injun   standing over   forms, contemplating them.  doctor murmured inarticulately, gave a long gasp or  and  still.  half-breed muttered: “That score is settled—damn .” Then he robbed  body. After which he   fatal knife in Potter’s open right hand, and  down on  dismantled coffin. Three—four—five minutes passed, and then Potter began to stir and moan.  hand closed upon  knife; he raised it, glanced at it, and  it fall, with a shudder. Then he  up, pushing  body from , and gazed at it, and then around , confusedly.  eyes  ’s. “Lord,  is this, ?” he said. “It’s a dirty business,” said , without moving. “What   do it ?” “I! I never done it!” “Look here! That kind of talk ’t wash.” Potter trembled and grew white. “I thought I’d  sober. I’d no business to drink to-night.  it’s in my head —worse’n when we started here. I’m all in a muddle; ’t recollect anything of it, hardly. Tell me, —honest, , old feller— I do it? , I never meant to—’ my soul and honor, I never meant to, . Tell me  it , . Oh, it’s awful—and  so young and promising.” “,    scuffling, and he fetched  one with  headboard and  fell flat; and then up  come, all reeling and staggering like, and snatched  knife and jammed it into , just as he fetched  another awful clip—and here ’ve laid, as dead as a wedge  .” “Oh, I didn’t know what I  a-doing. I wish I   this minute if I . It  all on account of  whiskey and  excitement, I reckon. I never used a weepon in my life before, . I’ve fought,  never with weepons. They’ll all  that. , ’t tell!   ’t tell, —that’s a good feller. I always liked , , and stood up  , . ’t  remember?  ’t tell, will , ?” And  poor creature dropped on  knees before  stolid murderer, and clasped  appealing hands. “No, ’ve always been fair and square with me, Muff Potter, and I ’t go back on . There, , that’s as fair as a   .” “Oh, , ’re an angel. I’ll bless   this  longest  I live.” And Potter began to . “Come, , that’s enough of that. This ain’t any time  blubbering.  be off yonder  and I’ll go this. Move, , and ’t leave any tracks behind .” Potter started on a trot that quickly increased to a .  half-breed stood looking after . He muttered: “If he’s as much stunned with  lick and fuddled with   as he   look of being, he ’t think of  knife till he’s gone so  he’ll be afraid to come back after it to such a place by himself—chicken-heart!”  or three minutes later  murdered ,  blanketed corpse,  lidless coffin, and  open grave were under no inspection   moon’s.  stillness  complete again, . CHAPTER X   boys flew on and on, toward  village, speechless with horror. They glanced backward over their shoulders from time to time, apprehensively, as if they feared they might be followed. Every stump that started up in their path seemed a  and an enemy, and made them catch their breath; and as they sped by some outlying cottages that  near  village,  barking of  aroused watch-dogs seemed to give wings to their feet. “If we  only  to  old tannery before we break down!” whispered , in short catches between breaths. “I ’t stand it much longer.” Huckleberry’s hard pantings were  only reply, and  boys fixed their eyes on  goal of their hopes and bent to their work to  it. They gained steadily on it, and at last, breast to breast, they burst through  open door and fell grateful and exhausted in  sheltering shadows beyond. By and by their pulses slowed down, and  whispered: “Huckleberry, what do  reckon’ll come of this?” “If Doctor Robinson dies, I reckon hanging’ll come of it.” “Do  though?” “, I know it, .”  thought a while, then he said: “’ll tell? We?” “What are  talking about? S’pose something happened and Injun  didn’t hang? , he’d kill us some time or other, just as dead sure as we’re a laying here.” “That’s just what I  thinking to myself, Huck.” “If anybody tells,  Muff Potter do it, if he’s fool enough. He’s generally drunk enough.”  said nothing—went on thinking. Presently he whispered: “Huck, Muff Potter ’t know it.   he tell?” “What’s  reason he ’t know it?” “Because he’d just  that whack when Injun  done it. D’ reckon he could  anything? D’ reckon he knowed anything?” “By hokey, that’s so, !” “And besides, look-a-here—maybe that whack done  !” “No, ’taint likely, . He  liquor in ; I could  that; and besides, he always . Well, when ’s full,  might take and belt  over  head with a church and  couldn’t phase . He says so,  own self. So it’s  same with Muff Potter, of course.  if a   dead sober, I reckon maybe that whack might fetch ; I dono.” After another reflective silence,  said: “Hucky,  sure   keep ?” “, we  to keep .  know that. That Injun devil wouldn’t make any more of drownding us than a couple of cats, if we  to squeak ’bout this and they didn’t hang . , look-a-here, , less take and swear to one another—that’s what we  to do—swear to keep .” “I’m agreed. It’s  best thing. Would  just hold hands and swear that we—” “Oh no, that wouldn’t do  this. That’s good enough  little rubbishy common things—specially with gals,  they go back on  anyway, and blab if they  in a huff— there orter be writing ’bout a  thing like this. And blood.” ’s whole being applauded this idea. It  deep, and dark, and awful;  hour,  circumstances,  surroundings, were in keeping with it. He picked up a clean pine shingle that  in  moon-light, took a little fragment of “ keel” out of  pocket,   moon on  work, and painfully scrawled these lines, emphasizing each slow down-stroke by clamping  tongue between  teeth, and letting up  pressure on  up-strokes. [ next page.] “Huck Finn and  Sawyer swears they will keep  about This and They wish They  Drop down dead in Their Tracks if They ever Tell and .” Huckleberry  filled with admiration of ’s facility in writing, and  sublimity of  language. He at once took a  from  lapel and  going to prick  flesh,   said: “Hold on! ’t do that. A ’s brass. It might have verdigrease on it.” “What’s verdigrease?” “It’s p’ison. That’s what it is.  just swaller some of it once—’ll .” So  unwound  thread from one of  needles, and each  pricked  ball of  thumb and squeezed out a drop of blood. In time, after many squeezes,  managed to sign  initials, using  ball of  little finger  a . Then he showed Huckleberry  to make an H and an F, and  oath  complete. They buried  shingle close to  wall, with some dismal ceremonies and incantations, and  fetters that bound their tongues were considered to be locked and   thrown away. A figure crept stealthily through a break in  other end of  ruined building, ,  they   notice it. “,” whispered Huckleberry, “does this keep us from ever telling—always?” “Of course it does. It ’t make any difference what happens, we  to keep . We’d drop down dead—’t  know that?” “, I reckon that’s so.” They continued to whisper  some little time. Presently a   up a long, lugubrious howl just outside—within  feet of them.  boys clasped each other suddenly, in an agony of fright. “Which of us does he mean?” gasped Huckleberry. “I dono—peep through  crack. Quick!” “No, , !” “I ’t—I ’t do it, Huck!” “Please, . There ’ again!” “Oh, lordy, I’m thankful!” whispered . “I know  voice. It’s Bull Harbison.” * [* If Mr. Harbison owned a slave named Bull,  would have spoken of  as “Harbison’s Bull,”  a  or a  of that name  “Bull Harbison.”] “Oh, that’s good—I tell , , I  most scared to death; I’d a  anything it  a stray .”   howled again.  boys’ hearts sank once more. “Oh, my! that ain’t no Bull Harbison!” whispered Huckleberry. “Do, !” , quaking with fear, yielded, and   eye to  crack.  whisper  hardly audible when he said: “Oh, Huck, its a stray !” “Quick, , quick!  does he mean?” “Huck, he must mean us both—we’re right together.” “Oh, , I reckon we’re goners. I reckon there ain’t no mistake ’bout where I’ll go to. I been so wicked.” “ fetch it! This comes of playing hookey and doing everything a feller’s told  to do. I might a been good, like , if I’d a tried— no, I wouldn’t, of course.  if ever I  off this time, I  I’ll just waller in Sunday-schools!” And  began to snuffle a little. “ !” and Huckleberry began to snuffle . “Consound it,  Sawyer, ’re just old , ’long-side o’ what I am. Oh, lordy, lordy, lordy, I wisht I only  half your chance.”  choked off and whispered: “Look, Hucky, look! He’s   back to us!” Hucky looked, with  in  heart. “Well, he , by jingoes!  he before?” “, he .  I, like a fool, never thought. Oh, this is bully,  know.    he mean?”  howling stopped.  pricked up  ears. “Sh! What’s that?” he whispered. “Sounds like—like hogs grunting. No—it’s somebody snoring, .” “That is it! Where ’bouts is it, Huck?” “I bleeve it’s down at ’tother end. Sounds so, anyway.  used to sleep there, sometimes, ’long with  hogs,  laws bless , he just lifts things when he snores. Besides, I reckon he ain’t ever coming back to this town any more.”  spirit of adventure rose in  boys’ souls once more. “Hucky, do  ’t to go if I lead?” “I ’t like to, much. , s’pose it’s Injun !”  quailed.  presently  temptation rose up strong again and  boys agreed to , with  understanding that they would take to their heels if  snoring stopped. So they went tiptoeing stealthily down,  one behind  other. When they   to within five steps of  snorer,  stepped on a stick, and it broke with a sharp snap.   moaned, writhed a little, and  face came into  moonlight. It  Muff Potter.  boys’ hearts  stood still, and their hopes , when   moved,  their fears passed away . They -toed out, through  broken weather-boarding, and stopped at a little distance to exchange a parting word. That long, lugubrious howl rose on  night air again! They turned and   strange  standing within a  feet of where Potter  lying, and facing Potter, with  nose pointing heavenward. “Oh, geeminy, it’s !” exclaimed both boys, in a breath. “, —they  a stray  come howling around Johnny Miller’s house, ’bout midnight, as much as  weeks ago; and a whippoorwill come in and  on  banisters and sung,  very same evening; and there ain’t anybody dead there .” “Well, I know that. And suppose there ain’t. Didn’t Gracie Miller fall in  kitchen fire and burn herself terrible  very next Saturday?” “,   ain’t dead. And what’s more, ’s getting better, .” “All right,  wait and . ’s a goner, just as dead sure as Muff Potter’s a goner. That’s what  niggers , and they know all about these kind of things, Huck.” Then they separated, cogitating. When  crept in at  bedroom window  night  almost spent. He undressed with excessive caution, and fell asleep congratulating himself that nobody knew of  escapade. He   aware that  gently-snoring   awake, and  been so  an hour. When  awoke,   dressed and gone. There  a late look in  light, a late sense in  atmosphere. He  startled.   he  been called—persecuted till he  up, as usual?  thought filled  with bodings. Within five minutes he  dressed and down-stairs, feeling sore and drowsy.  family were still at table,  they  finished breakfast. There  no voice of rebuke;  there were averted eyes; there  a silence and an air of solemnity that struck a chill to  culprit’s heart. He  down and tried to seem ,  it  up-hill work; it roused no smile, no response, and he lapsed into silence and   heart sink down to  depths. After breakfast  aunt took  aside, and  almost brightened in  hope that he  going to be flogged;  it   so.  aunt wept over  and asked   he could go and break  old heart so; and finally told  to go on, and ruin himself and bring  gray hairs with sorrow to  grave,  it  no use   to  any more. This  worse than a thousand whippings, and ’s heart  sorer  than  body. He cried, he pleaded  forgiveness, promised to reform over and over again, and then received  dismissal, feeling that he    an imperfect forgiveness and established  a feeble confidence. He left  presence  miserable to even feel revengeful toward ; and so  latter’s prompt retreat through  back gate  unnecessary. He moped to school gloomy and , and took  flogging, along with  Harper,  playing hookey   before, with  air of one whose heart  busy with heavier woes and wholly dead to trifles. Then he betook himself to  seat, rested  elbows on  desk and  jaws in  hands, and stared at  wall with  stony stare of suffering that  reached  limit and  no further go.  elbow  pressing against some hard substance. After a long time he slowly and sadly changed  position, and took up this object with a sigh. It  in a paper. He unrolled it. A long, lingering, colossal sigh followed, and  heart broke. It   brass andiron knob! This final feather broke  camel’s back. CHAPTER XI CLOSE upon  hour of noon  whole village  suddenly electrified with  ghastly news. No need of  as  un-dreamed-of telegraph;  tale flew from  to , from group to group, from house to house, with little less than telegraphic speed. Of course  schoolmaster gave holi-  that afternoon;  town would have thought strangely of  if he  . A gory knife  been found close to  murdered , and it  been recognized by somebody as belonging to Muff Potter—so  story . And it  said that a belated citizen  come upon Potter washing himself in  “branch” about one or  o’clock in  morning, and that Potter  at once sneaked off—suspicious circumstances, especially  washing which   a habit with Potter. It  also said that  town  been ransacked  this “murderer” ( public are  slow in  matter of sifting evidence and arriving at a verdict),  that he could  be found. Horsemen  departed down all  roads in every direction, and  Sheriff “ confident” that he would be captured before night. All  town  drifting toward  graveyard. ’s heartbreak vanished and he joined  procession,  because he would  a thousand times rather go anywhere else,  because an awful, unaccountable fascination drew  on. Arrived at  dreadful place, he wormed  small body through  crowd and   dismal spectacle. It seemed to  an age since he  there before. Somebody pinched  arm. He turned, and  eyes  Huckleberry’s. Then both looked elsewhere at once, and wondered if anybody  noticed anything in their mutual glance.  everybody  talking, and intent upon  grisly spectacle before them. “Poor fellow!” “Poor young fellow!” “This ought to be a lesson to grave robbers!” “Muff Potter’ll hang  this if they catch !” This   drift of remark; and  minister said, “It  a judgment;  hand is here.”   shivered from head to heel;   eye fell upon  stolid face of Injun . At this moment  crowd began to sway and struggle, and voices shouted, “It’s ! it’s ! he’s coming himself!” “? ?” from twenty voices. “Muff Potter!” “Hallo, he’s stopped!—Look out, he’s turning! ’t    away!” People in  branches of  trees over ’s head said he wasn’t trying to  away—he only looked doubtful and perplexed. “Infernal impudence!” said a bystander; “wanted to come and take a quiet look at  work, I reckon—didn’t expect any company.”  crowd fell apart, , and  Sheriff came through, ostentatiously leading Potter by  arm.  poor fellow’s face  haggard, and  eyes showed  fear that  upon . When he stood before  murdered , he shook as with a palsy, and he   face in  hands and burst into tears. “I didn’t do it, friends,” he sobbed; “’ my word and honor I never done it.” “’s accused ?” shouted a voice. This shot seemed to carry home. Potter lifted  face and looked around  with a pathetic hopelessness in  eyes. He  Injun , and exclaimed: “Oh, Injun ,  promised me ’d never—” “Is that your knife?” and it  thrust before  by  Sheriff. Potter would have fallen if they   caught  and eased  to  ground. Then he said: “Something told me ’t if I didn’t come back and —” He shuddered; then waved  nerveless hand with a vanquished gesture and said, “Tell ’em, , tell ’em—it ain’t any use any more.” Then Huckleberry and  stood dumb and staring, and heard  stony-hearted liar reel off  serene statement, they expecting every moment that  clear  would deliver ’s lightnings upon  head, and wondering to   long  stroke  delayed. And when he  finished and still stood alive and whole, their wavering impulse to break their oath and save  poor betrayed prisoner’s life faded and vanished away,  plainly this miscreant  sold himself to Satan and it would be fatal to meddle with  property of such a power as that. “ didn’t  leave? What   want to come here ?” somebody said. “I couldn’t help it—I couldn’t help it,” Potter moaned. “I wanted to  away,  I couldn’t seem to come anywhere  here.” And he fell to sobbing again. Injun  repeated  statement, just as calmly, a  minutes afterward on  inquest, under oath; and  boys, seeing that  lightnings were still withheld, were confirmed in their belief that   sold himself to  devil. He   become, to them,  most balefully interesting object they  ever looked upon, and they could  take their fascinated eyes from  face. They inwardly resolved to watch  nights, when opportunity should offer, in  hope of getting a glimpse of  dread master. Injun  helped to raise  body of  murdered  and  it in a wagon  removal; and it  whispered through  shuddering crowd that  wound bled a little!  boys thought that this happy circumstance would turn suspicion in  right direction;  they were disappointed,  more than one villager remarked: “It  within three feet of Muff Potter when it done it.” ’s fearful secret and gnawing conscience disturbed  sleep  as much as a week after this; and at breakfast one morning  said: “,  pitch around and talk in your sleep so much that  keep me awake half  time.”  blanched and dropped  eyes. “It’s a  sign,” said Aunt Polly, gravely. “What   on your mind, ?” “Nothing. Nothing ’t I know of.”   ’s hand shook so that he spilled  coffee. “And  do talk such stuff,”  said. “Last night  said, ‘It’s blood, it’s blood, that’s what it is!’  said that over and over. And  said, ‘’t torment me so—I’ll tell!’ Tell what? What is it ’ll tell?” Everything  swimming before . There is no telling what might have happened, ,  luckily  concern passed out of Aunt Polly’s face and  came to ’s relief without knowing it.  said: “! It’s that dreadful murder. I dream about it most every night myself. Sometimes I dream it’s me that done it.” Mary said   been affected much  same .  seemed satisfied.   out of  presence as quick as he plausibly could, and after that he complained of toothache  a week, and tied up  jaws every night. He never knew that   nightly watching, and frequently slipped  bandage free and then leaned on  elbow listening a good while at a time, and afterward slipped  bandage back to its place again. ’s distress of mind wore off gradually and  toothache grew irksome and  discarded. If  really managed to make anything out of ’s disjointed mutterings, he kept it to himself. It seemed to  that  schoolmates never would  done holding inquests on dead cats, and thus keeping  trouble present to  mind.  noticed that  never  coroner at one of these inquiries, though it  been  habit to take  lead in all  enterprises; he noticed, , that  never acted as a witness—and that  strange; and    overlook  fact that  even showed a marked aversion to these inquests, and always avoided them when he could.  marvelled,  said nothing. However, even inquests went out of vogue at last, and ceased to torture ’s conscience. Every  or , during this time of sorrow,  watched  opportunity and went to  little grated jail-window and smuggled such small comforts through to  “murderer” as he could  hold of.  jail  a trifling little brick  that stood in a marsh at  edge of  village, and no guards were afforded  it; indeed, it  seldom occupied. These offerings greatly helped to ease ’s conscience.  villagers  a strong desire to -and-feather Injun  and ride  on a rail,  body-snatching,  so formidable   character that nobody could be found   willing to take  lead in  matter, so it  dropped. He  been careful to begin both of  inquest-statements with  fight, without confessing  grave-robbery that preceded it; therefore it  deemed wisest  to   case in  courts at present. CHAPTER  ONE of  reasons  ’s mind  drifted away from its secret troubles , that it  found a  and weighty matter to interest itself about. Becky Thatcher  stopped coming to school.   struggled with  pride a  days, and tried to “whistle  down  wind,”  failed. He began to find himself hanging around  father’s house, nights, and feeling very miserable.   ill. What if  should ! There  distraction in  thought. He no longer took an interest in ,  even in piracy.  charm of life  gone; there  nothing  dreariness left. He   hoop away, and  ; there  no  in them any more.  aunt  concerned.  began to  all manner of remedies on .   one of those people  are infatuated with patent medicines and all -fangled methods of producing health or mending it.   an inveterate experimenter in these things. When something fresh in this line came out   in a fever, right away, to  it;  on herself,    never ailing,  on anybody else that came handy.   a subscriber  all  “Health” periodicals and phrenological frauds; and  solemn ignorance they were inflated with  breath to  nostrils. All  “” they contained about ventilation, and  to go to , and  to  up, and what to eat, and what to drink, and  much exercise to take, and what frame of mind to keep one’s self in, and what sort of clothing to wear,  all gospel to , and  never observed that  health-journals of  current month customarily upset everything they  recommended  month before.   as simple-hearted and honest as    long, and so   an easy victim.  gathered together  quack periodicals and  quack medicines, and thus armed with death, went about on  pale horse, metaphorically speaking, with “hell following after.”   never suspected that    an angel of healing and  balm of Gilead in disguise, to  suffering neighbors.  water treatment  , , and ’s  condition  a windfall to .    out at daylight every morning, stood  up in  wood-shed and drowned  with a deluge of cold water; then  scrubbed  down with a towel like a file, and so brought  to; then  rolled  up in a  sheet and   away under blankets till  sweated  soul clean and “ yellow stains of it came through  pores”—as  said.  notwithstanding all this,   grew more and more melancholy and pale and dejected.  added  baths, sitz baths, shower baths, and plunges.   remained as dismal as a hearse.  began to assist  water with a slim oatmeal diet and blister-plasters.  calculated  capacity as  would a ’s, and filled  up every  with quack cure-alls.   become indifferent to persecution by this time. This phase filled  old lady’s heart with consternation. This indifference must be broken up at any cost.   heard of Pain-killer   first time.  ordered a  at once.  tasted it and  filled with gratitude. It  simply fire in a liquid form.  dropped  water treatment and everything else, and pinned  faith to Pain-killer.  gave  a teaspoonful and watched with  deepest anxiety   result.  troubles were instantly at rest,  soul at peace again;   “indifference”  broken up.   could  have shown a wilder, heartier interest, if   built a fire under .  felt that it  time to wake up; this sort of life might be romantic enough, in  blighted condition,  it  getting to have  little sentiment and  much distracting variety about it. So he thought over various plans  relief, and finally  upon that of professing to be fond of Pain-killer. He asked  it so often that he became a nuisance, and  aunt ended by telling  to help himself and quit bothering . If it  been ,  would have  no misgivings to alloy  delight;  since it  ,  watched  bottle clandestinely.  found that  medicine  really diminish,  it   occur to  that    mending  health of a crack in  sitting-room floor with it. One    in  act of dosing  crack when  aunt’s yellow  came along, purring, eyeing  teaspoon avariciously, and begging  a taste.  said: “’t ask  it unless  want it, Peter.”  Peter signified that he  want it. “ better make sure.” Peter  sure. “ ’ve asked  it, and I’ll give it to , because there ain’t anything mean about me;  if  find  ’t like it,  mustn’t blame anybody  your own self.” Peter  agreeable. So  pried  mouth open and poured down  Pain-killer. Peter sprang a couple of yards in  air, and then delivered a -whoop and  off round and round  room, banging against furniture, upsetting flower-pots, and making general havoc. Next he rose on  hind feet and pranced around, in a frenzy of enjoyment, with  head over  shoulder and  voice proclaiming  unappeasable happiness. Then he went tearing around  house again spreading chaos and destruction in  path. Aunt Polly entered in time to   throw a  double summersets, deliver a final mighty hurrah, and sail through  open window, carrying  rest of  flower-pots with .  old lady stood petrified with astonishment, peering over  glasses;   on  floor expiring with laughter. “, what on earth ails that ?” “I ’t know, aunt,” gasped  . “, I never  anything like it. What  make  act so?” “Deed I ’t know, Aunt Polly; cats always act so when they’re having a good time.” “They do, do they?” There  something in  tone that made  apprehensive. “’m. That is, I believe they do.” “ do?” “’m.”  old lady  bending down,  watching, with interest emphasized by anxiety.  late he divined  “drift.”  handle of  telltale -spoon  visible under  -valance. Aunt Polly took it, held it up.  winced, and dropped  eyes. Aunt Polly raised  by  usual handle— ear—and cracked  head soundly with  thimble. “, , what   want to treat that poor dumb beast so, ?” “I done it out of pity  —because he hadn’t any aunt.” “Hadn’t any aunt!— numskull. What  that  to do with it?” “Heaps. Because if he’d  one ’d a burnt  out herself! ’d a roasted  bowels out of  ’thout any more feeling than if he  a human!” Aunt Polly felt a sudden pang of remorse. This  putting  thing in a  light; what  cruelty to a  might be cruelty to a , .  began to soften;  felt sorry.  eyes watered a little, and    hand on ’s head and said gently: “I  meaning   best, . And, , it  do  good.”  looked up in  face with just a perceptible twinkle peeping through  gravity. “I know   meaning   best, aunty, and so  I with Peter. It done  good, . I never    around so since—” “Oh, go ’long with , , before  aggravate me again. And   and  if  ’t be a good ,  once, and  needn’t take any more medicine.”  reached school ahead of time. It  noticed that this strange thing  been occurring every  latterly. And , as usual of late, he hung about  gate of  schoolyard instead of playing with  comrades. He  sick, he said, and he looked it. He tried to seem to be looking everywhere  whither he really  looking—down  road. Presently Jeff Thatcher hove in sight, and ’s face lighted; he gazed a moment, and then turned sorrowfully away. When Jeff arrived,  accosted ; and “ up” warily to opportunities  remark about Becky,   giddy  never could   bait.  watched and watched, hoping whenever a frisking frock came in sight, and hating  owner of it as soon as he      right one. At last frocks ceased to appear, and he dropped hopelessly into  dumps; he entered  empty schoolhouse and  down to suffer. Then one more frock passed in at  gate, and ’s heart gave a great bound.  next instant he  out, and “going on” like an Indian; yelling, laughing, chasing boys, jumping over  fence at risk of life and limb, throwing handsprings, standing on  head—doing all  heroic things he could conceive of, and keeping a furtive eye out, all  while, to  if Becky Thatcher  noticing.   seemed to be unconscious of it all;  never looked. Could it be possible that    aware that he  there? He carried  exploits to  immediate vicinity; came -whooping around, snatched a ’s , hurled it to  roof of  schoolhouse, broke through a group of boys, tumbling them in every direction, and fell sprawling, himself, under Becky’s nose, almost upsetting —and  turned, with  nose in  air, and he heard  : “Mf! some people think they’re mighty smart—always showing off!” ’s cheeks burned. He gathered himself up and sneaked off, crushed and crestfallen. CHAPTER XIII ’S mind  made up . He  gloomy and desperate. He  a forsaken, friendless , he said; nobody loved ; when they found out what they  driven  to, perhaps they would be sorry; he  tried to do right and  along,  they would   ; since nothing would do them  to be  of ,  it be so; and  them blame    consequences— shouldn’t they? What right   friendless to complain? , they  forced  to it at last: he would lead a life of crime. There  no choice. By this time he   down Meadow Lane, and  bell  school to “take up” tinkled faintly upon  ear. He sobbed, , to think he should never, never hear that old familiar sound any more—it  very hard,  it  forced on ; since he  driven out into  cold world, he must submit— he forgave them. Then  sobs came thick and fast. Just at this point he   soul’s sworn comrade,  Harper—hard-eyed, and with evidently a great and dismal purpose in  heart. Plainly here were “ souls with  a single thought.” , wiping  eyes with  sleeve, began to blubber out something about a resolution to escape from hard usage and lack of sympathy at home by roaming abroad into  great world never to return; and ended by hoping that  would  forget .  it transpired that this  a request which   just been going to make of , and  come to hunt  up  that purpose.  mother  whipped   drinking some cream which he  never tasted and knew nothing about; it  plain that   tired of  and wished  to go; if  felt that , there  nothing   to do  succumb; he hoped  would be happy, and never regret having driven  poor  out into  unfeeling world to suffer and . As   boys walked sorrowing along, they made a  compact to stand by each other and be brothers and never separate till death relieved them of their troubles. Then they began to  their plans.    being a hermit, and living on crusts in a remote cave, and dying, some time, of cold and want and grief;  after listening to , he conceded that there were some conspicuous advantages about a life of crime, and so he consented to be a pirate. Three miles below St. Petersburg, at a point where  Mississippi River  a trifle over a mile wide, there  a long, narrow, wooded island, with a shallow  at  head of it, and this offered well as a rendezvous. It   inhabited; it   over toward  further shore, abreast a dense and almost wholly unpeopled forest. So Jackson’s Island  chosen.  were to be  subjects of their piracies  a matter that   occur to them. Then they hunted up Huckleberry Finn, and he joined them promptly,  all careers were one to ; he  indifferent. They presently separated to meet at a lonely spot on  river-bank  miles above  village at  favorite hour—which  midnight. There  a small  raft there which they meant to capture. Each would bring hooks and lines, and such provision as he could steal in  most dark and mysterious —as became outlaws. And before  afternoon  done, they  all managed to enjoy  sweet glory of spreading  fact that pretty soon  town would “hear something.” All   this vague hint were cautioned to “be  and wait.” About midnight  arrived with a boiled  and a  trifles, and stopped in a dense undergrowth on a small bluff overlooking  meeting-place. It  starlight, and very still.  mighty river  like an ocean at rest.  listened a moment,  no sound disturbed  quiet. Then he gave a , distinct whistle. It  answered from under  bluff.  whistled twice more; these signals were answered in  same . Then a guarded voice said: “ goes there?” “ Sawyer,  Black Avenger of  Spanish Main. Name your names.” “Huck Finn  -Handed, and  Harper  Terror of  Seas.”   furnished these titles, from  favorite literature. “’ well. Give  countersign.”  hoarse whispers delivered  same awful word simultaneously to  brooding night: “Blood!” Then  tumbled   over  bluff and  himself down after it, tearing both skin and clothes to some extent in  effort. There  an easy, comfortable path along  shore under  bluff,  it lacked  advantages of difficulty and danger so valued by a pirate.  Terror of  Seas  brought a side of bacon, and  about worn himself out with getting it there. Finn  -Handed  stolen a skillet and a quantity of half-cured leaf tobacco, and  also brought a  corn-cobs to make pipes with.  none of  pirates smoked or “chewed”  himself.  Black Avenger of  Spanish Main said it would never do to start without some fire. That  a wise thought; matches were hardly known there in that . They  a fire smouldering upon a great raft a hundred yards above, and they went stealthily thither and helped themselves to a chunk. They made an imposing adventure of it, saying, “Hist!” every  and then, and suddenly halting with finger on ; moving with hands on imaginary dagger-hilts; and giving orders in dismal whispers that if “ ” stirred, to “  have it to  hilt,” because “dead  tell no tales.” They knew well enough that  raftsmen were all down at  village laying in stores or having a spree,  still that  no excuse  their conducting this thing in an unpiratical . They shoved off, presently,  in command, Huck at  after oar and  at  forward.  stood amidships, gloomy-browed, and with folded arms, and gave  orders in a , stern whisper: “Luff, and bring  to  wind!” “Aye-aye, !” “Steady, steady-y-y-y!” “Steady it is, !” “  go off a point!” “Point it is, !” As  boys steadily and monotonously drove  raft toward -stream it  no doubt understood that these orders were given only  “style,” and were  intended to mean anything in particular. “What sail’s  carrying?” “Courses, tops’ls, and flying-, .” “Send  r’yals up!  out aloft, there, half a dozen of ye—foretopmaststuns’l! Lively, !” “Aye-aye, !” “Shake out that maintogalans’l! Sheets and braces!  my hearties!” “Aye-aye, !” “Hellum-a-—hard a port! Stand by to meet  when  comes! Port, port! , ! With a will! Stead-y-y-y!” “Steady it is, !”  raft drew beyond  middle of  river;  boys pointed  head right, and then  on their oars.  river   high, so there   more than a  or three mile current. Hardly a word  said during  next three-quarters of an hour.   raft  passing before  distant town.  or three glimmering lights showed where it , peacefully sleeping, beyond  vague vast sweep of star-gemmed water, unconscious of  tremendous event that  happening.  Black Avenger stood still with folded arms, “looking  last” upon  scene of  former joys and  later sufferings, and wishing “” could   , abroad on  wild , facing peril and death with dauntless heart, going to  doom with a grim smile on  lips. It   a small strain on  imagination to remove Jackson’s Island beyond eye-shot of  village, and so he “looked  last” with a broken and satisfied heart.  other pirates were looking their last, ; and they all looked so long that they came near letting  current drift them out of  range of  island.  they discovered  danger in time, and made shift to avert it. About  o’clock in  morning  raft grounded on    hundred yards above  head of  island, and they waded back and forth until they  landed their freight. Part of  little raft’s belongings consisted of an old sail, and this they spread over a nook in  bushes  a tent to shelter their provisions;  they themselves would sleep in  open air in good weather, as became outlaws. They built a fire against  side of a great  twenty or thirty steps within  sombre depths of  forest, and then cooked some bacon in  frying-  supper, and used up half of  corn “pone” stock they  brought. It seemed glorious sport to be feasting in that wild, free  in  virgin forest of an unexplored and uninhabited island,  from  haunts of , and they said they never would return to civilization.  climbing fire  up their faces and threw its ruddy glare upon  pillared tree-trunks of their forest temple, and upon  varnished foliage and festooning vines. When  last crisp slice of bacon  gone, and  last allowance of corn pone devoured,  boys stretched themselves out on  grass, filled with contentment. They could have found a cooler place,  they would  deny themselves such a romantic feature as  roasting campfire. “Ain’t it ?” said . “It’s nuts!” said . “What would  boys  if they could  us?” “? Well, they’d just  to be here—, Hucky!” “I reckon so,” said Huckleberry; “anyways, I’m suited. I ’t want nothing better’n this. I ’t ever  enough to eat, ’ally—and here they ’t come and pick at a feller and bullyrag  so.” “It’s just  life  me,” said . “ ’t have to  up, mornings, and  ’t have to go to school, and wash, and all that blame foolishness.   a pirate ’t have to do anything, , when he’s ashore,  a hermit he  to be praying considerable, and then he ’t have any , anyway, all by himself that .” “Oh , that’s so,” said , “ I hadn’t thought much about it,  know. I’d a good deal rather be a pirate,  that I’ve tried it.” “ ,” said , “people ’t go much on hermits, nowadays, like they used to in old times,  a pirate’s always respected. And a hermit’s  to sleep on  hardest place he  find, and  sackcloth and ashes on  head, and stand out in  rain, and—” “What does he  sackcloth and ashes on  head ?” inquired Huck. “I dono.  they’ve  to do it. Hermits always do. ’d have to do that if   a hermit.” “Dern’d if I would,” said Huck. “Well, what would  do?” “I dono.  I wouldn’t do that.” “, Huck, ’d have to. ’d   around it?” “, I just wouldn’t stand it. I’d  away.” “ away! Well,  would be a nice old slouch of a hermit. ’d be a disgrace.”  -Handed made no response, being better employed. He  finished gouging out a , and  he fitted a weed stem to it, loaded it with tobacco, and  pressing a coal to  charge and blowing a cloud of fragrant smoke—he  in  full bloom of luxurious contentment.  other pirates envied  this majestic vice, and secretly resolved to acquire it shortly. Presently Huck said: “What does pirates have to do?”  said: “Oh, they have just a bully time—take ships and burn them, and   money and bury it in awful places in their island where there’s ghosts and things to watch it, and kill everybody in  ships—make ’em walk a plank.” “And they carry  women to  island,” said ; “they ’t kill  women.” “No,” assented , “they ’t kill  women—they’re  noble. And  women’s always beautiful, . “And ’t they wear  bulliest clothes! Oh no! All gold and silver and di’monds,” said , with enthusiasm. “?” said Huck. “,  pirates.” Huck scanned  own clothing forlornly. “I reckon I ain’t dressed fitten  a pirate,” said he, with a regretful pathos in  voice; “ I ain’t  none  these.”   other boys told   fine clothes would come fast enough, after they should have begun their adventures. They made  understand that  poor rags would do to begin with, though it  customary  wealthy pirates to start with a proper wardrobe. Gradually their talk died out and drowsiness began to steal upon  eyelids of  little waifs.  pipe dropped from  fingers of  -Handed, and he slept  sleep of  conscience-free and  weary.  Terror of  Seas and  Black Avenger of  Spanish Main  more difficulty in getting to sleep. They said their prayers inwardly, and lying down, since there  nobody there with authority to make them kneel and recite aloud; in truth, they  a mind  to  them at all,  they were afraid to proceed to such lengths as that, lest they might call down a sudden and special thunderbolt from heaven. Then at once they reached and hovered upon  imminent verge of sleep— an intruder came, , that would  “down.” It  conscience. They began to feel a vague fear that they  been doing wrong to  away; and next they thought of  stolen meat, and then  real torture came. They tried to argue it away by reminding conscience that they  purloined sweetmeats and apples scores of times;  conscience   to be appeased by such thin plausibilities; it seemed to them, in  end, that there  no getting around  stubborn fact that taking sweetmeats  only “hooking,” while taking bacon and hams and such valuables  plain simple stealing—and there  a command against that in  Bible. So they inwardly resolved that so long as they remained in  business, their piracies should  again be sullied with  crime of stealing. Then conscience granted a truce, and these curiously inconsistent pirates fell peacefully to sleep. CHAPTER  WHEN  awoke in  morning, he wondered where he . He  up and rubbed  eyes and looked around. Then he comprehended. It   cool gray dawn, and there  a delicious sense of repose and peace in  deep pervading calm and silence of  woods.  a leaf stirred;  a sound obtruded upon great Nature’s meditation. Beaded dewdrops stood upon  leaves and grasses. A white layer of ashes covered  fire, and a thin blue breath of smoke rose straight into  air.  and Huck still slept. ,  away in  woods a bird called; another answered; presently  hammering of a woodpecker  heard. Gradually  cool  gray of  morning whitened, and as gradually sounds multiplied and life manifested itself.  marvel of Nature shaking off sleep and going to work unfolded itself to  musing . A little green worm came crawling over a dewy leaf, lifting -thirds of  body into  air from time to time and “sniffing around,” then proceeding again— he  measuring,  said; and when  worm approached , of its own accord, he  as still as a stone, with  hopes rising and falling, by turns, as  creature still came toward  or seemed inclined to go elsewhere; and when at last it considered a painful moment with its curved body in  air and then came decisively down upon ’s  and began a journey over ,  whole heart  glad— that meant that he  going to have a  suit of clothes—without  shadow of a doubt a gaudy piratical uniform.  a procession of ants appeared, from nowhere in particular, and went about their labors; one struggled manfully by with a dead spider five times as  as itself in its arms, and lugged it straight up a tree-trunk. A brown spotted lady- climbed  dizzy height of a grass blade, and  bent down close to it and said, “Lady-, lady-,  away home, your house is on fire, your children’s alone,” and  took wing and went off to  about it—which   surprise  ,  he knew of old that this insect  credulous about conflagrations, and he  practised upon its simplicity more than once. A tumblebug came next, heaving sturdily at its ball, and  touched  creature, to  it shut its legs against its body and pretend to be dead.  birds were fairly rioting by this time. A catbird,  Northern mocker,  in a tree over ’s head, and trilled out  imitations of  neighbors in a rapture of enjoyment; then a shrill  swept down, a flash of blue flame, and stopped on a twig almost within  ’s reach, cocked  head to one side and eyed  strangers with a consuming curiosity; a gray squirrel and a  fellow of  “” kind came skurrying along, sitting up at intervals to inspect and chatter at  boys,   wild things  probably never seen a human being before and scarcely knew whether to be afraid or . All Nature  wide awake and stirring, ; long lances of sunlight pierced down through  dense foliage  and near, and a  butterflies came fluttering upon  scene.  stirred up  other pirates and they all clattered away with a shout, and in a minute or  were stripped and chasing after and tumbling over each other in  shallow limpid water of  white sandbar. They felt no longing   little village sleeping in  distance beyond  majestic waste of water. A vagrant current or a slight rise in  river  carried off their raft,  this only gratified them, since its going  something like burning  bridge between them and civilization. They came back to camp wonderfully refreshed, glad-hearted, and ravenous; and they soon   camp-fire blazing up again. Huck found a spring of clear cold water close by, and  boys made cups of broad oak or hickory leaves, and felt that water, sweetened with such a wildwood charm as that, would be a good enough substitute  coffee. While   slicing bacon  breakfast,  and Huck asked  to hold on a minute; they stepped to a promising nook in  river-bank and threw in their lines; almost immediately they  reward.     time to  impatient before they were back again with some handsome bass, a couple of -perch and a small catfish—provisions enough  quite a family. They fried  fish with  bacon, and were astonished;  no fish  ever seemed so delicious before. They   know that  quicker a fresh-water fish is on  fire after he is caught  better he is; and they reflected little upon what a sauce open-air sleeping, open-air exercise, bathing, and a large ingredient of hunger make, . They  around in  shade, after breakfast, while Huck  a smoke, and then went off through  woods on an exploring expedition. They tramped gayly along, over decaying logs, through tangled underbrush, among solemn monarchs of  forest, hung from their crowns to  ground with a drooping regalia of grape-vines.  and then they came upon snug nooks carpeted with grass and jeweled with flowers. They found plenty of things to be delighted with,  nothing to be astonished at. They discovered that  island  about three miles long and a quarter of a mile wide, and that  shore it  closest to  only separated from it by a narrow channel hardly  hundred yards wide. They took a swim about every hour, so it  close upon  middle of  afternoon when they  back to camp. They were  hungry to stop to fish,  they fared sumptuously upon cold , and then threw themselves down in  shade to talk.   talk soon began to drag, and then died.  stillness,  solemnity that brooded in  woods, and  sense of loneliness, began to tell upon  spirits of  boys. They fell to thinking. A sort of undefined longing crept upon them. This took  shape, presently—it  budding homesickness. Even Finn  -Handed  dreaming of  doorsteps and empty hogsheads.  they were all ashamed of their weakness, and none  brave enough to speak  thought.  some time, ,  boys  been dully conscious of a peculiar sound in  distance, just as one sometimes is of  ticking of a clock which he takes no distinct note of.   this mysterious sound became more pronounced, and forced a recognition.  boys started, glanced at each other, and then each assumed a listening attitude. There  a long silence, profound and unbroken; then a deep, sullen boom came floating down out of  distance. “What is it!” exclaimed , under  breath. “I wonder,” said  in a whisper. “’Tain’t thunder,” said Huckleberry, in an awed tone, “becuz thunder—” “Hark!” said . “Listen—’t talk.” They waited a time that seemed an age, and then  same muffled boom troubled  solemn hush. “’s go and .” They sprang to their feet and hurried to  shore toward  town. They parted  bushes on  bank and peered out over  water.  little steam ferry-boat  about a mile below  village, drifting with  current.  broad deck seemed crowded with people. There were a great many skiffs rowing about or floating with  stream in  neighborhood of  ferryboat,   boys could  determine what   in them were doing. Presently a great  of white smoke burst from  ferryboat’s side, and as it expanded and rose in a lazy cloud, that same dull throb of sound  borne to  listeners again. “I know !” exclaimed ; “somebody’s drownded!” “That’s it!” said Huck; “they done that last summer, when Bill Turner  drownded; they shoot a cannon over  water, and that makes  come up to  . , and they take loaves of bread and  quicksilver in ’em and  ’em afloat, and wherever there’s anybody that’s drownded, they’ll float right there and stop.” “, I’ve heard about that,” said . “I wonder what makes  bread do that.” “Oh, it ain’t  bread, so much,” said ; “I reckon it’s mostly what they  over it before they start it out.” “ they ’t  anything over it,” said Huck. “I’ve seen ’em and they ’t.” “Well, that’s funny,” said . “ maybe they  it to themselves. Of course they do. Anybody might know that.”  other boys agreed that there  reason in what  said, because an ignorant lump of bread, uninstructed by an incantation, could  be expected to act very intelligently when  upon an errand of such gravity. “By jings, I wish I  over there, ,” said . “I do ” said Huck “I’d give heaps to know  it is.”  boys still listened and watched. Presently a revealing thought flashed through ’s mind, and he exclaimed: “Boys, I know ’s drownded—it’s us!” They felt like heroes in an instant. Here  a gorgeous triumph; they were missed; they were mourned; hearts were breaking on their account; tears were being shed; accusing memories of unkindness to these poor lost lads were rising up, and unavailing regrets and remorse were being indulged; and best of all,  departed were  talk of  whole town, and  envy of all  boys, as  as this dazzling notoriety  concerned. This  fine. It  worth while to be a pirate, after all. As twilight drew on,  ferryboat went back to  accustomed business and  skiffs disappeared.  pirates returned to camp. They were jubilant with vanity over their  grandeur and  illustrious trouble they were making. They caught fish, cooked supper and ate it, and then fell to guessing at what  village  thinking and saying about them; and  pictures they drew of  public distress on their account were gratifying to look upon—from their point of view.  when  shadows of night closed them in, they gradually ceased to talk, and  gazing into  fire, with their minds evidently wandering elsewhere.  excitement  gone, , and  and  could  keep back thoughts of certain persons at home  were  enjoying this fine frolic as much as they were. Misgivings came; they grew troubled and unhappy; a sigh or  escaped, unawares. By and by  timidly ventured upon a roundabout “feeler” as to   others might look upon a return to civilization— right , —  withered  with derision! Huck, being uncommitted as , joined in with , and  waverer quickly “explained,” and  glad to  out of  scrape with as little taint of chicken-hearted home-sickness clinging to  garments as he could. Mutiny  effectually laid to rest   moment. As  night deepened, Huck began to , and presently to snore.  followed next.   upon  elbow motionless,  some time, watching   intently. At last he  up cautiously, on  knees, and went searching among  grass and  flickering reflections flung by  campfire. He picked up and inspected several large semi-cylinders of  thin white bark of a sycamore, and finally chose  which seemed to suit . Then he knelt by  fire and painfully wrote something upon each of these with  “ keel”; one he rolled up and  in  jacket pocket, and  other he  in ’s  and removed it to a little distance from  owner. And he also  into   certain schoolboy treasures of almost inestimable value—among them a lump of chalk, an India-rubber ball, three fishhooks, and one of that kind of marbles known as a “sure ’nough crystal.” Then he tiptoed   cautiously among  trees till he felt that he  out of hearing, and straightway broke into a keen  in  direction of  sandbar. CHAPTER XV A  minutes later   in  shoal water of  , wading toward  Illinois shore. Before  depth reached  middle he  halfway over;  current would permit no more wading, , so he struck out confidently to swim  remaining hundred yards. He swam quartering upstream,  still  swept downward rather faster than he  expected. However, he reached  shore finally, and drifted along till he found a  place and drew himself out. He   hand on  jacket pocket, found  piece of bark safe, and then struck through  woods, following  shore, with streaming garments. Shortly before  o’clock he came out into an open place opposite  village, and   ferryboat lying in  shadow of  trees and  high bank. Everything  quiet under  blinking stars. He crept down  bank, watching with all  eyes, slipped into  water, swam three or four strokes and climbed into  skiff that  “yawl” duty at  boat’s stern. He laid himself down under  thwarts and waited, panting. Presently  cracked bell tapped and a voice gave  order to “cast off.” A minute or  later  skiff’s head  standing high up, against  boat’s swell, and  voyage  begun.  felt happy in  success,  he knew it   boat’s last trip   night. At  end of a long twelve or fifteen minutes  wheels stopped, and  slipped overboard and swam ashore in  dusk, landing fifty yards downstream, out of danger of possible stragglers. He flew along unfrequented alleys, and shortly found himself at  aunt’s back fence. He climbed over, approached  “ell,” and looked in at  sitting-room window,  a light  burning there. There  Aunt Polly, , Mary, and  Harper’s mother, grouped together, talking. They were by  , and    between them and  door.  went to  door and began to softly lift  latch; then he pressed gently and  door yielded a crack; he continued pushing cautiously, and quaking every time it creaked, till he judged he might squeeze through on  knees; so he   head through and began, warily. “What makes  candle blow so?” said Aunt Polly.  hurried up. “, that door’s open, I believe. , of course it is. No end of strange things . Go ’long and shut it, .”  disappeared under   just in time. He  and “breathed” himself  a time, and then crept to where he could almost touch  aunt’s foot. “ as I  saying,” said Aunt Polly, “he warn’t , so to —only mischeevous. Only just giddy, and harum-scarum,  know. He warn’t any more responsible than a colt. He never meant any harm, and he   best-hearted  that ever ”—and  began to . “It  just so with my —always full of  devilment, and up to every kind of mischief,  he  just as unselfish and kind as he could be—and laws bless me, to think I went and whipped   taking that cream, never once recollecting that I throwed it out myself because it  sour, and I never to   again in this world, never, never, never, poor abused !” And . Harper sobbed as if  heart would break. “I hope ’s better off where he is,” said , “ if he’d been better in some ways—” “!”  felt  glare of  old lady’s eye, though he could   it. “ a word against my ,  that he’s gone! ’ll take care of —never  trouble yourself, ! Oh, . Harper, I ’t know  to give  up! I ’t know  to give  up! He  such a comfort to me, although he tormented my old heart out of me, ’most.” “ Lord giveth and  Lord hath taken away—Blessed be  name of  Lord!  it’s so hard—Oh, it’s so hard! Only last Saturday my  busted a firecracker right under my nose and I knocked  sprawling. Little  I know then,  soon—Oh, if it  to do over again I’d   and bless   it.” “, , , I know just   feel, . Harper, I know just exactly   feel. No longer ago than yesterday noon, my  took and filled   full of Pain-killer, and I  think  cretur would tear  house down. And  forgive me, I cracked ’s head with my thimble, poor , poor dead .  he’s out of all  troubles . And  last words I ever heard    to reproach—”  this memory   much   old lady, and  broke entirely down.   snuffling, , himself—and more in pity of himself than anybody else. He could hear Mary crying, and putting in a kindly word   from time to time. He began to have a nobler opinion of himself than ever before. Still, he  sufficiently touched by  aunt’s grief to long to rush out from under   and overwhelm  with —and  theatrical gorgeousness of  thing appealed strongly to  nature, ,  he resisted and  still. He went on listening, and gathered by odds and ends that it  conjectured at first that  boys   drowned while taking a swim; then  small raft  been missed; next, certain boys said  missing lads  promised that  village should “hear something” soon;  wise-heads  “ this and that together” and decided that  lads  gone off on that raft and would turn up at  next town below, presently;  toward noon  raft  been found, lodged against  Missouri shore some five or  miles below  village—and then hope perished; they must be drowned, else hunger would have driven them home by nightfall if  sooner. It  believed that  search   bodies  been a fruitless effort merely because  drowning must have occurred in -channel, since  boys, being good swimmers, would otherwise have escaped to shore. This  Wednesday night. If  bodies continued missing until Sunday, all hope would be given over, and  funerals would be preached on that morning.  shuddered. . Harper gave a sobbing goodnight and turned to go. Then with a mutual impulse   bereaved women flung themselves into each other’s arms and  a good, consoling , and then parted. Aunt Polly  tender  beyond  wont, in  goodnight to  and Mary.  snuffled a  and Mary went off crying with all  heart. Aunt Polly knelt down and prayed   so touchingly, so appealingly, and with such measureless love in  words and  old trembling voice, that he  weltering in tears again, long before   through. He  to keep still long after  went to ,   kept making broken-hearted ejaculations from time to time, tossing unrestfully, and turning over.  at last   still, only moaning a little in  sleep.    stole out, rose gradually by  bedside, shaded  candle-light with  hand, and stood regarding .  heart  full of pity  . He took out  sycamore scroll and placed it by  candle.  something occurred to , and he lingered considering.  face lighted with a happy solution of  thought; he   bark hastily in  pocket. Then he bent over and kissed  faded lips, and straightway made  stealthy exit, latching  door behind . He threaded   back to  ferry landing, found nobody at large there, and walked boldly on board  boat,  he knew   tenantless except that there  a watchman,  always turned in and slept like a graven image. He untied  skiff at  stern, slipped into it, and  soon rowing cautiously upstream. When he  pulled a mile above  village, he started quartering across and bent himself stoutly to  work. He   landing on  other side neatly,  this  a familiar  of work to . He  moved to capture  skiff, arguing that it might be considered a ship and therefore legitimate prey  a pirate,  he knew a thorough search would be made  it and that might end in revelations. So he stepped ashore and entered  woods. He  down and took a long rest, torturing himself meanwhile to keep awake, and then started warily down  home-stretch.  night   spent. It  broad daylight before he found himself fairly abreast  island . He rested again until    well up and gilding  great river with its splendor, and then he plunged into  stream. A little later he paused, dripping, upon  threshold of  camp, and heard  : “No, ’s true-blue, Huck, and he’ll come back. He ’t desert. He knows that would be a disgrace to a pirate, and ’s  proud  that sort of thing. He’s up to something or other.  I wonder what?” “Well,  things is ours, anyway, ain’t they?” “Pretty near,   , Huck.  writing says they are if he ain’t back here to breakfast.” “Which he is!” exclaimed , with fine dramatic effect, stepping grandly into camp. A sumptuous breakfast of bacon and fish  shortly provided, and as  boys  to work upon it,  recounted (and adorned)  adventures. They were a vain and boastful company of heroes when  tale  done. Then   himself away in a shady nook to sleep till noon, and  other pirates  ready to fish and explore. CHAPTER  AFTER dinner all  gang turned out to hunt  turtle eggs on  . They went about poking sticks into  sand, and when they found a soft place they went down on their knees and  with their hands. Sometimes they would take fifty or sixty eggs out of one hole. They were perfectly round white things a trifle smaller than an English walnut. They  a famous fried-egg feast that night, and another on Friday morning. After breakfast they went whooping and prancing out on  , and chased each other round and round, shedding clothes as they went, until they were naked, and then continued  frolic  away up  shoal water of  , against  stiff current, which latter tripped their legs from under them from time to time and greatly increased  . And  and then they stooped in a group and splashed water in each other’s faces with their palms, gradually approaching each other, with averted faces to avoid  strangling sprays, and finally gripping and struggling till  best  ducked  neighbor, and then they all went under in a tangle of white legs and arms and came up blowing, sputtering, laughing, and gasping  breath at one and  same time. When they were well exhausted, they would  out and sprawl on  ,  sand, and  there and cover themselves up with it, and by and by break   water again and go through  original performance once more. Finally it occurred to them that their naked skin represented flesh-colored “tights” very fairly; so they drew a ring in  sand and  a circus—with three clowns in it,  none would yield this proudest post to  neighbor. Next they  their marbles and played “knucks” and “ringtaw” and “keeps” till that amusement grew stale. Then  and Huck  another swim,   would  venture, because he found that in kicking off  trousers he  kicked  string of rattlesnake rattles off  ankle, and he wondered  he  escaped cramp so long without  protection of this mysterious charm. He   venture again until he  found it, and by that time  other boys were tired and ready to rest. They gradually wandered apart, dropped into  “dumps,” and fell to gazing longingly across  wide river to where  village  drowsing in  .  found himself writing “BECKY” in  sand with   ; he scratched it out, and  angry with himself   weakness.  he wrote it again, nevertheless; he could  help it. He erased it once more and then took himself out of temptation by driving  other boys together and joining them.  ’s spirits  gone down almost beyond resurrection. He  so homesick that he could hardly endure  misery of it.  tears  very near  surface. Huck  melancholy, .   downhearted,  tried hard  to show it. He  a secret which he   ready to tell, ,  if this mutinous depression   broken up soon, he would have to bring it out. He said, with a great show of cheerfulness: “I  there’s been pirates on this island before, boys. We’ll explore it again. They’ve  treasures here somewhere. ’d  feel to light on a rotten chest full of gold and silver—?”  it roused only faint enthusiasm, which faded out, with no reply.  tried one or  other seductions;  they failed, . It  discouraging work.   poking up  sand with a stick and looking very gloomy. Finally he said: “Oh, boys, ’s give it up. I want to go home. It’s so lonesome.” “Oh no, , ’ll feel better by and by,” said . “Just think of  fishing that’s here.” “I ’t care  fishing. I want to go home.” “, , there ain’t such another swimming-place anywhere.” “Swimming’s no good. I ’t seem to care  it, somehow, when there ain’t anybody to  I ’n’t go in. I mean to go home.” “Oh, shucks! Baby!  want to  your mother, I reckon.” “, I do want to  my mother—and  would, , if   one. I ain’t any more baby than  are.” And  snuffled a little. “Well, we’ll   crybaby go home to  mother, ’t we, Huck? Poor thing—does it want to  its mother? And so it shall.  like it here, ’t , Huck? We’ll stay, ’t we?” Huck said, “Y-e-s”—without any heart in it. “I’ll never speak to  again as long as I live,” said , rising. “There !” And he moved moodily away and began to dress himself. “ cares!” said . “Nobody wants  to. Go ’long home and  laughed at. Oh, ’re a nice pirate. Huck and me ain’t crybabies. We’ll stay, ’t we, Huck?   go if he wants to. I reckon we   along without , ’aps.”    uneasy, nevertheless, and  alarmed to   go sullenly on with  dressing. And then it  discomforting to  Huck eying ’s preparations so wistfully, and keeping up such an ominous silence. Presently, without a parting word,  began to wade off toward  Illinois shore. ’s heart began to sink. He glanced at Huck. Huck could  bear  look, and dropped  eyes. Then he said: “I want to go, , . It  getting so lonesome anyway, and  it’ll be worse. ’s us go, , .” “I ’t!   all go, if  want to. I mean to stay.” “, I better go.” “Well, go ’long—’s hendering .” Huck began to pick up  scattered clothes. He said: “, I wisht ’d come, .   think it over. We’ll wait   when we  to shore.” “Well, ’ll wait a blame long time, that’s all.” Huck started sorrowfully away, and  stood looking after , with a strong desire tugging at  heart to yield  pride and go along . He hoped  boys would stop,  they still waded slowly on. It suddenly dawned on  that it  become very lonely and still. He made one final struggle with  pride, and then darted after  comrades, yelling: “Wait! Wait! I want to tell  something!” They presently stopped and turned around. When he  to where they were, he began unfolding  secret, and they listened moodily till at last they   “point” he  driving at, and then they  up a warwhoop of applause and said it  “splendid!” and said if he  told them at first, they wouldn’t have started away. He made a plausible excuse;   real reason  been  fear that  even  secret would keep them with  any very great length of time, and so he  meant to hold it in reserve as a last seduction.  lads came gayly back and went at their sports again with a will, chattering all  time about ’s stupendous plan and admiring  genius of it. After a dainty egg and fish dinner,  said he wanted to learn to smoke, .  caught at  idea and said he would like to , . So Huck made pipes and filled them. These novices  never smoked anything before  cigars made of grapevine, and they “”  tongue, and were  considered manly anyway.  they stretched themselves out on their elbows and began to puff, charily, and with slender confidence.  smoke  an unpleasant taste, and they gagged a little,   said: “, it’s just as easy! If I’d a knowed this  all, I’d a learnt long ago.” “So would I,” said . “It’s just nothing.” “, many a time I’ve looked at people smoking, and thought well I wish I could do that;  I never thought I could,” said . “That’s just   with me, hain’t it, Huck? ’ve heard me talk just that —haven’t , Huck? I’ll leave it to Huck if I haven’t.” “—heaps of times,” said Huck. “Well, I have ,” said ; “oh, hundreds of times. Once down by  slaughter-house. ’t  remember, Huck?  Tanner  there, and Johnny Miller, and Jeff Thatcher, when I said it. ’t  remember, Huck, ’bout me saying that?” “, that’s so,” said Huck. “That    after I lost a white alley. No, ’twas   before.” “There—I told  so,” said . “Huck recollects it.” “I bleeve I could smoke this pipe all ,” said . “I ’t feel sick.” “Neither do I,” said . “I could smoke it all .  I   Jeff Thatcher couldn’t.” “Jeff Thatcher! , he’d keel over just with  draws. Just    it once. He’d !” “I  he would. And Johnny Miller—I wish could  Johnny Miller tackle it once.” “Oh, ’t I!” said . “, I   Johnny Miller couldn’t any more do this than nothing. Just one little snifter would fetch .” “’Deed it would, . —I wish  boys could  us .” “So do I.” “—boys, ’t  anything about it, and some time when they’re around, I’ll come up to  and , ‘,  a pipe? I want a smoke.’ And ’ll , kind of careless like, as if it warn’t anything, ’ll , ‘, I  my old pipe, and another one,  my tobacker ain’t very good.’ And I’ll , ‘Oh, that’s all right, if it’s strong enough.’ And then ’ll out with  pipes, and we’ll light up just as ca’m, and then just  ’em look!” “By jings, that’ll be , ! I wish it  !” “So do I! And when we tell ’em we learned when we  off pirating, ’t they wish they’d been along?” “Oh, I reckon ! I’ll just  they will!” So  talk  on.  presently it began to flag a trifle, and grow disjointed.  silences widened;  expectoration marvellously increased. Every pore inside  boys’ cheeks became a spouting fountain; they could scarcely bail out  cellars under their tongues fast enough to prevent an inundation; little overflowings down their throats occurred in spite of all they could do, and sudden retchings followed every time. Both boys were looking very pale and miserable, . ’s pipe dropped from  nerveless fingers. ’s followed. Both fountains were going furiously and both pumps bailing with might and main.  said feebly: “I’ve lost my knife. I reckon I better go and find it.”  said, with quivering lips and halting utterance: “I’ll help .  go over that  and I’ll hunt around by  spring. No,  needn’t come, Huck—we  find it.” So Huck  down again, and waited an hour. Then he found it lonesome, and went to find  comrades. They were wide apart in  woods, both very pale, both fast asleep.  something informed  that if they   any trouble they    of it. They were  talkative at supper that night. They  a humble look, and when Huck prepared  pipe after  meal and  going to prepare theirs, they said no, they were  feeling very well—something they ate at dinner  disagreed with them. About midnight  awoke, and called  boys. There  a brooding oppressiveness in  air that seemed to bode something.  boys huddled themselves together and sought  friendly companionship of  fire, though  dull dead heat of  breathless atmosphere  stifling. They  still, intent and waiting.  solemn hush continued. Beyond  light of  fire everything  swallowed up in  blackness of darkness. Presently there came a quivering glow that vaguely revealed  foliage  a moment and then vanished. By and by another came, a little stronger. Then another. Then a faint moan came sighing through  branches of  forest and  boys felt a fleeting breath upon their cheeks, and shuddered with  fancy that  Spirit of  Night  gone by. There  a pause.  a weird flash turned night into  and showed every little grassblade, separate and distinct, that grew about their feet. And it showed three white, startled faces, . A deep peal of thunder went rolling and tumbling down  heavens and lost itself in sullen rumblings in  distance. A sweep of chilly air passed by, rustling all  leaves and snowing  flaky ashes broadcast about  fire. Another fierce glare  up  forest and an instant crash followed that seemed to rend  treetops right over  boys’ heads. They clung together in terror, in  thick gloom that followed. A   raindrops fell pattering upon  leaves. “Quick! boys, go   tent!” exclaimed . They sprang away, stumbling over roots and among vines in  dark, no  plunging in  same direction. A furious blast roared through  trees, making everything sing as it went. One blinding flash after another came, and peal on peal of deafening thunder. And  a drenching rain poured down and  rising hurricane drove it in sheets along  ground.  boys cried out to each other,   roaring wind and  booming thunderblasts drowned their voices utterly. However, one by one they straggled in at last and took shelter under  tent, cold, scared, and streaming with water;  to have company in misery seemed something to be grateful . They could  talk,  old sail flapped so furiously, even if  other noises would have allowed them.  tempest rose higher and higher, and presently  sail tore loose from its fastenings and went winging away on  blast.  boys seized each others’ hands and fled, with many tumblings and bruises, to  shelter of a great oak that stood upon  riverbank.   battle  at its highest. Under  ceaseless conflagration of lightning that flamed in  skies, everything below stood out in cleancut and shadowless distinctness:  bending trees,  billowy river, white with foam,  driving spray of spumeflakes,   outlines of  high bluffs on  other side, glimpsed through  drifting cloudrack and  slanting veil of rain. Every little while some giant tree yielded  fight and fell crashing through  younger growth; and  unflagging thunderpeals came  in ear-splitting explosive bursts, keen and sharp, and unspeakably appalling.  storm culminated in one matchless effort that seemed likely to tear  island to pieces, burn it up, drown it to  treetops, blow it away, and deafen every creature in it, all at one and  same moment. It  a wild night  homeless young heads to be out in.  at last  battle  done, and  forces retired with weaker and weaker threatenings and grumblings, and peace resumed  sway.  boys went back to camp, a good deal awed;  they found there  still something to be thankful , because  great sycamore,  shelter of their beds,  a ruin, , blasted by  lightnings, and they were  under it when  catastrophe happened. Everything in camp  drenched,  campfire as well;  they were  heedless lads, like their generation, and  made no provision against rain. Here  matter  dismay,  they were soaked through and chilled. They were eloquent in their distress;  they presently discovered that  fire  eaten so  up under  great  it  been built against (where it curved upward and separated itself from  ground), that a handbreadth or so of it  escaped wetting; so they patiently wrought until, with shreds and bark gathered from  under sides of sheltered logs, they coaxed  fire to burn again. Then they piled on great dead boughs till they  a roaring furnace, and were gladhearted once more. They dried their boiled  and  a feast, and after that they  by  fire and expanded and glorified their midnight adventure until morning,  there   a  spot to sleep on, anywhere around. As   began to steal in upon  boys, drowsiness came over them, and they went out on  sandbar and  down to sleep. They  scorched out by and by, and drearily  about getting breakfast. After  meal they felt rusty, and stiff-jointed, and a little homesick once more.    signs, and fell to cheering up  pirates as well as he could.  they cared nothing  marbles, or circus, or swimming, or anything. He reminded them of  imposing secret, and raised a  of cheer. While it lasted, he  them interested in a  device. This  to knock off being pirates,  a while, and be Indians  a change. They were attracted by this idea; so it   long before they were stripped, and striped from head to heel with black , like so many zebras—all of them chiefs, of course—and then they went tearing through  woods to attack an English settlement. By and by they separated into three hostile tribes, and darted upon each other from ambush with dreadful warwhoops, and killed and scalped each other by thousands. It  a gory . Consequently it  an extremely satisfactory one. They assembled in camp toward suppertime, hungry and happy;   a difficulty arose—hostile Indians could  break  bread of hospitality together without first making peace, and this  a simple impossibility without smoking a pipe of peace. There  no other process that ever they  heard of.  of  savages almost wished they  remained pirates. However, there  no other ; so with such show of cheerfulness as they could muster they called   pipe and took their whiff as it passed, in  form. And behold, they were glad they  gone into savagery,  they  gained something; they found that they could  smoke a little without having to go and hunt  a lost knife; they    sick enough to be seriously uncomfortable. They were  likely to fool away this high promise  lack of effort. No, they practised cautiously, after supper, with right fair success, and so they spent a jubilant evening. They were prouder and happier in their  acquirement than they would have been in  scalping and skinning of   Nations. We will leave them to smoke and chatter and brag, since we have no further use  them at present. CHAPTER XVII  there  no hilarity in  little town that same tranquil Saturday afternoon.  Harpers, and Aunt Polly’s family, were being  into mourning, with great grief and many tears. An unusual quiet possessed  village, although it  ordinarily quiet enough, in all conscience.  villagers conducted their concerns with an absent air, and talked little;  they sighed often.  Saturday holiday seemed a burden to  children. They  no heart in their sports, and gradually gave them up. In  afternoon Becky Thatcher found herself moping about  deserted schoolhouse yard, and feeling very melancholy.   found nothing there to comfort .  soliloquized: “Oh, if I only  a brass andiron-knob again!  I haven’t  anything  to remember  by.” And  choked back a little . Presently  stopped, and said to herself: “It  right here. Oh, if it  to do over again, I wouldn’t  that—I wouldn’t  it   whole world.  he’s gone ; I’ll never, never, never   any more.” This thought broke  down, and  wandered away, with tears rolling down  cheeks. Then quite a group of boys and girls—playmates of ’s and ’s—came by, and stood looking over  paling fence and talking in reverent tones of    so-and-so  last time they  , and   said this and that small trifle (pregnant with awful prophecy, as they could easily  !)—and each speaker pointed out  exact spot where  lost lads stood at  time, and then added something like “and I  a-standing just so—just as I am , and as if   —I  as close as that—and he smiled, just this —and then something seemed to go all over me, like—awful,  know—and I never thought what it meant, of course,  I   !” Then there  a dispute about    dead boys last in life, and many claimed that dismal distinction, and offered evidences, more or less tampered with by  witness; and when it  ultimately decided     departed last, and exchanged  last words with them,  lucky parties took upon themselves a sort of sacred importance, and were gaped at and envied by all  rest. One poor chap,   no other grandeur to offer, said with tolerably manifest pride in  remembrance: “Well,  Sawyer he licked me once.”  that   glory  a failure. Most of  boys could  that, and so that cheapened  distinction  much.  group loitered away, still recalling memories of  lost heroes, in awed voices. When  Sunday-school hour  finished,  next morning,  bell began to toll, instead of ringing in  usual . It  a very still Sabbath, and  mournful sound seemed in keeping with  musing hush that  upon nature.  villagers began to gather, loitering a moment in  vestibule to converse in whispers about   event.  there  no whispering in  house; only  funereal rustling of dresses as  women gathered to their seats disturbed  silence there. None could remember when  little church  been so full before. There  finally a waiting pause, an expectant dumbness, and then Aunt Polly entered, followed by  and Mary, and they by  Harper family, all in deep black, and  whole congregation,  old minister as well, rose reverently and stood until  mourners were seated in  front . There  another communing silence, broken at intervals by muffled sobs, and then  minister spread  hands abroad and prayed. A moving hymn  sung, and  text followed: “I am  Resurrection and  Life.” As  service proceeded,  clergyman drew such pictures of  graces,  winning ways, and  rare promise of  lost lads that every soul there, thinking he recognized these pictures, felt a pang in remembering that he  persistently blinded himself to them always before, and  as persistently seen only faults and flaws in  poor boys.  minister related many a touching incident in  lives of  departed, , which illustrated their sweet, generous natures, and  people could easily , ,  noble and beautiful those episodes were, and remembered with grief that at  time they occurred they  seemed rank rascalities, well deserving of  cowhide.  congregation became more and more moved, as  pathetic tale went on, till at last  whole company broke down and joined  weeping mourners in a chorus of anguished sobs,  preacher himself giving  to  feelings, and crying in  pulpit. There  a rustle in  gallery, which nobody noticed; a moment later  church door creaked;  minister raised  streaming eyes above  handkerchief, and stood transfixed! First one and then another pair of eyes followed  minister’s, and then almost with one impulse  congregation rose and stared while  three dead boys came marching up  aisle,  in  lead,  next, and Huck, a ruin of drooping rags, sneaking sheepishly in  rear! They  been  in  unused gallery listening to their own funeral sermon! Aunt Polly, Mary, and  Harpers threw themselves upon their restored ones, smothered them with kisses and poured out thanksgivings, while poor Huck stood abashed and uncomfortable,  knowing exactly what to do or where to hide from so many unwelcoming eyes. He wavered, and started to slink away,   seized  and said: “Aunt Polly, it ain’t fair. Somebody’s  to be glad to  Huck.” “And so they shall. I’m glad to  , poor motherless thing!” And  loving attentions Aunt Polly lavished upon  were  one thing capable of making  more uncomfortable than he  before. Suddenly  minister shouted at   of  voice: “Praise  from whom all blessings flow—sing!—and  your hearts in it!” And they . Old Hundred swelled up with a triumphant burst, and while it shook  rafters  Sawyer  Pirate looked around upon  envying juveniles about  and confessed in  heart that this   proudest moment of  life. As  “sold” congregation trooped out they said they would almost be willing to be made ridiculous again to hear Old Hundred sung like that once more.   more cuffs and kisses that —according to Aunt Polly’s varying moods—than he  earned before in a year; and he hardly knew which expressed  most gratefulness to  and affection  himself. CHAPTER XVIII THAT  ’s great secret— scheme to return home with  brother pirates and attend their own funerals. They  paddled over to  Missouri shore on a , at dusk on Saturday, landing five or  miles below  village; they  slept in  woods at  edge of  town till nearly daylight, and  then crept through back lanes and alleys and finished their sleep in  gallery of  church among a chaos of invalided benches. At breakfast, Monday morning, Aunt Polly and Mary were very loving to , and very attentive to  wants. There  an unusual amount of talk. In  course of it Aunt Polly said: “Well, I ’t  it wasn’t a fine joke, , to keep everybody suffering ’most a week so  boys  a good time,  it is a pity  could be so hard-hearted as to  me suffer so. If  could come over on a  to go to your funeral,  could have come over and give me a hint some  that  warn’t dead,  only  off.” “,  could have done that, ,” said Mary; “and I believe  would if   thought of it.” “Would , ?” said Aunt Polly,  face lighting wistfully. “, , would , if ’d thought of it?” “I—well, I ’t know. ’Twould ’a’ spoiled everything.” “, I hoped  loved me that much,” said Aunt Polly, with a grieved tone that discomforted  . “It would have been something if ’d cared enough to think of it, even if  didn’t do it.” “, auntie, that ain’t any harm,” pleaded Mary; “it’s only ’s giddy —he is always in such a rush that he never thinks of anything.” “More’s  pity.  would have thought. And  would have come and done it, . , ’ll look back, some , when it’s  late, and wish ’d cared a little more  me when it would have cost  so little.” “, auntie,  know I do care  ,” said . “I’d know it better if  acted more like it.” “I wish  I’d thought,” said , with a repentant tone; “ I dreamt about , anyway. That’s something, ain’t it?” “It ain’t much—a  does that much— it’s better than nothing. What   dream?” “, Wednesday night I dreamt that   sitting over there by  , and   sitting by  woodbox, and Mary next to .” “Well, so we . So we always do. I’m glad your dreams could take even that much trouble about us.” “And I dreamt that  Harper’s mother  here.” “,   here!   dream any more?” “Oh, lots.  it’s so , .” “Well,  to recollect—’t ?” “Somehow it seems to me that  wind— wind blowed ——” “ harder, !  wind  blow something. Come!”  pressed  fingers on  forehead an anxious minute, and then said: “I’ve  it ! I’ve  it ! It blowed  candle!” “Mercy on us! Go on, —go on!” “And it seems to me that  said, ‘, I believe that that door—‘” “Go on, !” “Just  me study a moment—just a moment. Oh, — said  believed  door  open.” “As I’m sitting here, I ! Didn’t I, Mary! Go on!” “And then—and then—well I ’t be certain,  it seems like as if  made  go and—and—” “Well? Well? What  I make  do, ? What  I make  do?” “ made ——Oh,  made  shut it.” “Well,   land’s sake! I never heard  beat of that in all my days! ’t tell me there ain’t anything in dreams, any more. Sereny Harper shall know of this before I’m an hour older. I’d like to    around this with  rubbage ’bout superstition. Go on, !” “Oh, it’s all getting just as bright as , . Next  said I warn’t , only mischeevous and harum-scarum, and  any more responsible than—than—I think it  a colt, or something.” “And so it ! Well, goodness gracious! Go on, !” “And then  began to .” “So I . So I .   first time, neither. And then—” “Then . Harper  began to , and said   just  same, and  wished  hadn’t whipped   taking cream when ’d throwed it out  own self—” “!  sperrit  upon !   a prophesying—that’s what   doing! Land alive, go on, !” “Then  he said—he said—” “I ’t think I said anything,” said . “  , ,” said Mary. “Shut your heads and   go on! What  he , ?” “He said—I think he said he hoped I  better off where I  gone to,  if I’d been better sometimes—” “There, d’ hear that! It   very words!” “And  shut  up sharp.” “I  I ! There must ’a’ been an angel there. There  an angel there, somewheres!” “And . Harper told about  scaring  with a firecracker, and  told about Peter and  Pain-killer—” “Just as true as I live!” “And then there  a whole  of talk ’bout dragging  river  us, and ’bout having  funeral Sunday, and then  and old Miss Harper hugged and cried, and  went.” “It happened just so! It happened just so, as sure as I’m a-sitting in these very tracks. ,  couldn’t told it more like if ’d ’a’ seen it! And then what? Go on, !” “Then I thought  prayed  me—and I could   and hear every word  said. And  went to , and I  so sorry that I took and wrote on a piece of sycamore bark, ‘We ain’t dead—we are only off being pirates,’ and  it on  table by  candle; and then  looked so good, laying there asleep, that I thought I went and leaned over and kissed  on  lips.” “ , ,  ! I just forgive  everything  that!” And  seized   in a crushing embrace that made  feel like  guiltiest of villains. “It  very kind, even though it  only a—dream,”  soliloquized just audibly. “Shut up, ! A body does just  same in a dream as he’d do if he  awake. Here’s a  Milum apple I’ve been saving  , , if   ever found again— go ’long to school. I’m thankful to  good  and Father of us all I’ve   back, that’s long-suffering and merciful to them that believe on  and keep  word, though goodness knows I’m unworthy of it,  if only  worthy ones   blessings and   hand to help them over  rough places, there’s  enough would smile here or ever enter into  rest when  long night comes. Go ’long , Mary, —take yourselves off—’ve hendered me long enough.”  children left  school, and  old lady to call on . Harper and vanquish  realism with ’s marvellous dream.   better judgment than to utter  thought that  in  mind as he left  house. It  this: “Pretty thin—as long a dream as that, without any mistakes in it!” What a hero   become, ! He   go skipping and prancing,  moved with a dignified swagger as became a pirate  felt that  public eye  on . And indeed it ; he tried  to seem to   looks or hear  remarks as he passed along,  they were food and drink to . Smaller boys than himself flocked at  heels, as proud to be seen with , and tolerated by , as if he  been  drummer at  head of a procession or  elephant leading a menagerie into town. Boys of  own size pretended  to know he  been away at all;  they were consuming with envy, nevertheless. They would have given anything to have that swarthy -tanned skin of , and  glittering notoriety; and  would  have parted with either  a circus. At school  children made so much of  and of , and delivered such eloquent admiration from their eyes, that   heroes were  long in becoming insufferably “stuck-up.” They began to tell their adventures to hungry listeners— they only began; it   a thing likely to have an end, with imaginations like theirs to furnish material. And finally, when they  out their pipes and went serenely puffing around,  very summit of glory  reached.  decided that he could be independent of Becky Thatcher . Glory  sufficient. He would live  glory.  that he  distinguished, maybe  would be wanting to “make up.” Well,  — should  that he could be as indifferent as some other people. Presently  arrived.  pretended  to  . He moved away and joined a group of boys and girls and began to talk. Soon he observed that   tripping gayly back and forth with flushed face and dancing eyes, pretending to be busy chasing schoolmates, and screaming with laughter when  made a capture;  he noticed that  always made  captures in  vicinity, and that  seemed to cast a conscious eye in  direction at such times, . It gratified all  vicious vanity that  in ; and so, instead of winning , it only “  up”  more and made   more diligent to avoid betraying that he knew   about. Presently  gave over skylarking, and moved irresolutely about, sighing once or twice and glancing furtively and wistfully toward . Then  observed that    talking more particularly to Amy Lawrence than to any one else.  felt a sharp pang and grew disturbed and uneasy at once.  tried to go away,   feet were treacherous, and carried  to  group instead.  said to a girl almost at ’s elbow—with sham vivacity: “, Mary Austin!   girl,  didn’t  come to Sunday-school?” “I  come—didn’t   me?” “, no!  ? Where   ?” “I  in Miss Peters’ class, where I always go. I  .” “ ? , it’s funny I didn’t  . I wanted to tell  about  picnic.” “Oh, that’s jolly. ’s going to give it?” “My ma’s going to  me have one.” “Oh, goody; I hope ’ll  me come.” “Well,  will.  picnic’s  me. ’ll  anybody come that I want, and I want .” “That’s ever so nice. When is it going to be?” “By and by. Maybe about vacation.” “Oh, ’t it be !  going to have all  girls and boys?” “, every one that’s friends to me—or wants to be”; and  glanced ever so furtively at ,  he talked right along to Amy Lawrence about  terrible storm on  island, and   lightning tore  great sycamore tree “all to flinders” while he  “standing within three feet of it.” “Oh,  I come?” said Grace Miller. “.” “And me?” said Sally Rogers. “.” “And me, ?” said Susy Harper. “And ?” “.” And so on, with clapping of joyful hands till all  group  begged  invitations   and Amy. Then  turned coolly away, still talking, and took Amy with . Becky’s lips trembled and  tears came to  eyes;   these signs with a forced gayety and went on chattering,   life  gone out of  picnic, , and out of everything else;   away as soon as  could and  herself and  what   call “a good .” Then   moody, with wounded pride, till  bell rang.  roused up, , with a vindictive cast in  eye, and gave  plaited tails a shake and said  knew what ’d do. At recess  continued  flirtation with Amy with jubilant self-satisfaction. And he kept drifting about to find Becky and lacerate  with  performance. At last he spied ,  there  a sudden falling of  mercury.   sitting cosily on a little bench behind  schoolhouse looking at a picture-book with Alfred Temple—and so absorbed were they, and their heads so close together over  book, that they   seem to be conscious of anything in  world besides. Jealousy  - through ’s veins. He began to hate himself  throwing away  chance Becky  offered  a reconciliation. He called himself a fool, and all  hard names he could think of. He wanted to  with vexation. Amy chatted happily along, as they walked,   heart  singing,  ’s tongue  lost its function. He   hear what Amy  saying, and whenever  paused expectantly he could only stammer an awkward assent, which  as often misplaced as otherwise. He kept drifting to  rear of  schoolhouse, again and again, to sear  eyeballs with  hateful spectacle there. He could  help it. And it maddened  to , as he thought he , that Becky Thatcher never once suspected that he  even in  land of  living.    , nevertheless; and  knew   winning  fight, , and  glad to   suffer as   suffered. Amy’s happy prattle became intolerable.  hinted at things he  to attend to; things that must be done; and time  fleeting.  in vain— girl chirped on.  thought, “Oh, hang , ain’t I ever going to   of ?” At last he must be attending to those things—and  said artlessly that  would be “around” when school  out. And he hastened away, hating   it. “Any other !”  thought, grating  teeth. “Any  in  whole town  that Saint Louis smarty that thinks he dresses so fine and is aristocracy! Oh, all right, I licked   first   ever  this town, mister, and I’ll lick  again!  just wait till I catch  out! I’ll just take and—” And he went through  motions of thrashing an imaginary —pummelling  air, and kicking and gouging. “Oh,  do, do ?  holler ’nough, do ? , then,  that learn !” And so  imaginary flogging  finished to  satisfaction.  fled home at noon.  conscience could  endure any more of Amy’s grateful happiness, and  jealousy could bear no more of  other distress. Becky resumed  picture inspections with Alfred,  as  minutes dragged along and no  came to suffer,  triumph began to cloud and  lost interest; gravity and absentmindedness followed, and then melancholy;  or three times  pricked up  ear at a footstep,  it  a false hope; no  came. At last  grew entirely miserable and wished  hadn’t carried it so . When poor Alfred, seeing that he  losing , he   know , kept exclaiming: “Oh, here’s a jolly one! look at this!”  lost patience at last, and said, “Oh, ’t bother me! I ’t care  them!” and burst into tears, and  up and walked away. Alfred dropped alongside and  going to  to comfort ,   said: “Go away and leave me alone, ’t ! I hate !” So   halted, wondering what he could have done—   said  would look at pictures all through  nooning—and  walked on, crying. Then Alfred went musing into  deserted schoolhouse. He  humiliated and angry. He easily guessed   to  truth— girl  simply made a convenience of  to vent  spite upon  Sawyer. He   from hating   less when this thought occurred to . He wished there  some  to  that  into trouble without much risk to himself. ’s spelling-book fell under  eye. Here   opportunity. He gratefully opened to  lesson   afternoon and poured ink upon  page. Becky, glancing in at a window behind  at  moment,   act, and moved on, without discovering herself.  started homeward, , intending to find  and tell ;  would be thankful and their troubles would be healed. Before   half  home, however,   changed  mind.  thought of ’s treatment of  when   talking about  picnic came scorching back and filled  with shame.  resolved to    whipped on  damaged spelling-book’s account, and to hate  forever, into  bargain. CHAPTER   arrived at home in a dreary mood, and  first thing  aunt said to  showed  that he  brought  sorrows to an unpromising market: “, I’ve a notion to skin  alive!” “Auntie, what have I done?” “Well, ’ve done enough. Here I go over to Sereny Harper, like an old softy, expecting I’m going to make  believe all that rubbage about that dream, when lo and behold  ’d found out from  that   over here and heard all  talk we  that night. , I ’t know what is to become of a  that will act like that. It makes me feel so  to think  could  me go to Sereny Harper and make such a fool of myself and never  a word.” This  a  aspect of  thing.  smartness of  morning  seemed to  a good joke before, and very ingenious. It merely looked mean and shabby . He hung  head and could  think of anything to   a moment. Then he said: “Auntie, I wish I hadn’t done it— I didn’t think.” “Oh, child,  never think.  never think of anything  your own selfishness.  could think to come all   over here from Jackson’s Island in  night to laugh at our troubles, and  could think to fool me with a  about a dream;   couldn’t ever think to pity us and save us from sorrow.” “Auntie, I know  it  mean,  I didn’t mean to be mean. I didn’t, honest. And besides, I didn’t come over here to laugh at  that night.” “What   come , then?” “It  to tell   to be uneasy about us, because we hadn’t  drownded.” “, , I would be  thankfullest soul in this world if I could believe  ever  as good a thought as that,   know  never —and I know it, .” “Indeed and ’deed I , auntie—I wish I  never stir if I didn’t.” “Oh, , ’t —’t do it. It only makes things a hundred times worse.” “It ain’t a , auntie; it’s  truth. I wanted to keep  from grieving—that  all that made me come.” “I’d give  whole world to believe that—it would cover up a power of sins, . I’d ’most be glad ’d  off and acted so .  it ain’t reasonable; because,  didn’t  tell me, child?” “,  , when   to talking about  funeral, I just  all full of  idea of our coming and hiding in  church, and I couldn’t somehow bear to spoil it. So I just   bark back in my pocket and kept .” “What bark?” “ bark I  wrote on to tell  we’d gone pirating. I wish, , ’d waked up when I kissed —I do, honest.”  hard lines in  aunt’s face relaxed and a sudden tenderness dawned in  eyes. “  kiss me, ?” “, , I .” “Are  sure  , ?” “, , I , auntie—certain sure.” “What   kiss me , ?” “Because I loved  so, and  laid there moaning and I  so sorry.”  words sounded like truth.  old lady could  hide a tremor in  voice when  said: “Kiss me again, !—and be off with  to school, , and ’t bother me any more.”  moment he  gone,   to a closet and  out  ruin of a jacket which   gone pirating in. Then  stopped, with it in  hand, and said to herself: “No, I ’t dare. Poor , I reckon he’s lied about it— it’s a blessed, blessed , there’s such a comfort come from it. I hope  Lord—I know  Lord will forgive , because it  such good-heartedness in  to tell it.  I ’t want to find out it’s a . I ’t look.”    jacket away, and stood by musing a minute. Twice   out  hand to take  garment again, and twice  refrained. Once more  ventured, and this time  fortified herself with  thought: “It’s a good —it’s a good —I ’t  it grieve me.” So  sought  jacket pocket. A moment later   reading ’s piece of bark through flowing tears and saying: “I could forgive  , , if he’d committed a million sins!” CHAPTER XX THERE  something about Aunt Polly’s manner, when  kissed , that swept away   spirits and made  lighthearted and happy again. He started to school and   luck of coming upon Becky Thatcher at  head of Meadow Lane.  mood always determined  manner. Without a moment’s hesitation he  to  and said: “I acted mighty mean today, Becky, and I’m so sorry. I ’t ever, ever do that  again, as long as ever I live—please make up, ’t ?”  girl stopped and looked  scornfully in  face: “I’ll thank  to keep yourself to yourself, Mr. Thomas Sawyer. I’ll never speak to  again.”  tossed  head and passed on.   so stunned that he   even presence of mind enough to  “ cares, Miss Smarty?” until  right time to  it  gone by. So he said nothing.  he  in a fine rage, nevertheless. He moped into  schoolyard wishing  were a , and imagining  he would trounce  if  were. He presently encountered  and delivered a stinging remark as he passed.  hurled one in return, and  angry breach  complete. It seemed to Becky, in   resentment, that  could hardly wait  school to “take in,”   so impatient to   flogged   injured spelling-book. If    any lingering notion of exposing Alfred Temple, ’s offensive fling  driven it entirely away. Poor girl,    know  fast   nearing trouble herself.  master, Mr. Dobbins,  reached middle age with an unsatisfied ambition.  darling of  desires , to be a doctor,  poverty  decreed that he should be nothing higher than a village schoolmaster. Every  he took a mysterious book out of  desk and absorbed himself in it at times when no classes were reciting. He kept that book under lock and . There   an urchin in school   perishing to have a glimpse of it,   chance never came. Every  and girl  a theory about  nature of that book;  no  theories were alike, and there  no  of getting at  facts in  case. , as Becky  passing by  desk, which stood near  door,  noticed that    in  lock! It  a precious moment.  glanced around; found herself alone, and  next instant    book in  hands.  titlepage—Professor Somebody’s Anatomy—carried no information to  mind; so  began to turn  leaves.  came at once upon a handsomely engraved and colored frontispiece—a human figure, stark naked. At that moment a shadow fell on  page and  Sawyer stepped in at  door and caught a glimpse of  picture. Becky snatched at  book to close it, and   hard luck to tear  pictured page half down  middle.  thrust  volume into  desk, turned  , and burst out crying with shame and vexation. “ Sawyer,  are just as mean as   be, to sneak up on a person and look at what they’re looking at.” “ could I know   looking at anything?” “ ought to be ashamed of yourself,  Sawyer;  know ’re going to tell on me, and oh, what shall I do, what shall I do! I’ll be whipped, and I never  whipped in school.” Then  stamped  little foot and said: “Be so mean if  want to! I know something that’s going to happen.  just wait and ’ll ! Hateful, hateful, hateful!”—and  flung out of  house with a  explosion of crying.  stood still, rather flustered by this onslaught. Presently he said to himself: “What a curious kind of a fool a girl is! Never been licked in school! Shucks! What’s a licking! That’s just like a girl—they’re so thin-skinned and chicken-hearted. Well, of course I ain’t going to tell old Dobbins on this little fool, because there’s other ways of getting even on , that ain’t so mean;  what of it? Old Dobbins will ask  it  tore  book. Nobody’ll answer. Then he’ll do just   he always does—ask first one and then t’other, and when he comes to  right girl he’ll know it, without any telling. Girls’ faces always tell on them. They ain’t  any backbone. ’ll  licked. Well, it’s a kind of a tight place  Becky Thatcher, because there ain’t any  out of it.”  conned  thing a moment longer, and then added: “All right, though; ’d like to  me in just such a —  sweat it out!”  joined   of skylarking scholars outside. In a  moments  master arrived and school “took in.”    feel a strong interest in  studies. Every time he stole a glance at  girls’ side of  room Becky’s face troubled . Considering all things, he   want to pity , and  it  all he could do to help it. He could  up no exultation that  really worthy  name. Presently  spelling-book discovery  made, and ’s mind  entirely full of  own matters  a while after that. Becky roused up from  lethargy of distress and showed good interest in  proceedings.    expect that  could  out of  trouble by denying that he spilt  ink on  book himself; and   right.  denial only seemed to make  thing worse  . Becky supposed  would be glad of that, and  tried to believe   glad of it,   found    certain. When  worst came to  worst,   an impulse to  up and tell on Alfred Temple,   made an effort and forced herself to keep still—because, said  to herself, “he’ll tell about me tearing  picture sure. I wouldn’t  a word,  to save  life!”  took  whipping and went back to  seat  at all broken-hearted,  he thought it  possible that he  unknowingly upset  ink on  spelling-book himself, in some skylarking bout—he  denied it  form’s sake and because it  custom, and  stuck to  denial from principle. A whole hour drifted by,  master  nodding in  throne,  air  drowsy with   of study. By and by, Mr. Dobbins straightened himself up, yawned, then unlocked  desk, and reached   book,  seemed undecided whether to take it out or leave it. Most of  pupils glanced up languidly,  there were  among them that watched  movements with intent eyes. Mr. Dobbins fingered  book absently  a while, then took it out and settled himself in  chair to read!  shot a glance at Becky. He  seen a hunted and helpless rabbit look as  , with a  levelled at its head. Instantly he forgot  quarrel with . Quick—something must be done! done in a flash, !   very imminence of  emergency paralyzed  invention. Good!—he  an inspiration! He would  and snatch  book, spring through  door and .   resolution shook  one little instant, and  chance  lost— master opened  volume. If  only   wasted opportunity back again!  late. There  no help  Becky , he said.  next moment  master faced  school. Every eye sank under  gaze. There  that in it which smote even  innocent with fear. There  silence while one might count — master  gathering  wrath. Then he spoke: “ tore this book?” There   a sound. One could have heard a  drop.  stillness continued;  master searched face after face  signs of guilt. “Benjamin Rogers,   tear this book?” A denial. Another pause. “Joseph Harper,  ?” Another denial. ’s uneasiness grew more and more intense under  slow torture of these proceedings.  master scanned  ranks of boys—considered a while, then turned to  girls: “Amy Lawrence?” A shake of  head. “Gracie Miller?”  same sign. “Susan Harper,   do this?” Another negative.  next girl  Becky Thatcher.   trembling from head to foot with excitement and a sense of  hopelessness of  situation. “Rebecca Thatcher” [ glanced at  face—it  white with terror]—“  tear—no, look me in  face” [ hands rose in appeal]—“  tear this book?” A thought shot like lightning through ’s brain. He sprang to  feet and shouted—“I done it!”  school stared in perplexity at this incredible folly.  stood a moment, to gather  dismembered faculties; and when he stepped forward to go to  punishment  surprise,  gratitude,  adoration that shone upon  out of poor Becky’s eyes seemed  enough  a hundred floggings. Inspired by  splendor of  own act, he took without an outcry  most merciless flaying that even Mr. Dobbins  ever administered; and also received with indifference  added cruelty of a command to remain  hours after school should be dismissed— he knew  would wait   outside till  captivity  done, and  count  tedious time as loss, either.  went to  that night planning vengeance against Alfred Temple;  with shame and repentance Becky  told  all,  forgetting  own treachery;  even  longing  vengeance  to give , soon, to pleasanter musings, and he fell asleep at last with Becky’s latest words lingering dreamily in  ear— “,  could  be so noble!” CHAPTER  VACATION  approaching.  schoolmaster, always severe, grew severer and more exacting than ever,  he wanted  school to make a good showing on “Examination” .   and  ferule were seldom idle —at least among  smaller pupils. Only  biggest boys, and young ladies of eighteen and twenty, escaped lashing. Mr. Dobbins’ lashings were very vigorous ones, ;  although he carried, under  , a perfectly bald and shiny head, he  only reached middle age, and there  no sign of feebleness in  muscle. As  great  approached, all  tyranny that  in  came to  surface; he seemed to take a vindictive pleasure in punishing  least shortcomings.  consequence , that  smaller boys spent their days in terror and suffering and their nights in plotting revenge. They threw away no opportunity to do  master a mischief.  he kept ahead all  time.  retribution that followed every vengeful success  so sweeping and majestic that  boys always retired from  field badly worsted. At last they conspired together and  upon a plan that promised a dazzling victory. They swore in  signpainter’s , told   scheme, and asked  help. He   own reasons  being delighted,   master boarded in  father’s family and  given   ample cause to hate .  master’s wife would go on a visit to  country in a  days, and there would be nothing to interfere with  plan;  master always prepared himself  great occasions by getting pretty well fuddled, and  signpainter’s  said that when  dominie  reached  proper condition on Examination Evening he would “manage  thing” while he napped in  chair; then he would have  awakened at  right time and hurried away to school. In  fulness of time  interesting occasion arrived. At eight in  evening  schoolhouse  brilliantly lighted, and adorned with wreaths and festoons of foliage and flowers.  master  throned in  great chair upon a raised platform, with  blackboard behind . He  looking tolerably mellow. Three rows of benches on each side and  rows in front of  were occupied by  dignitaries of  town and by  parents of  pupils. To  left, back of  rows of citizens,  a spacious temporary platform upon which were seated  scholars  were to take part in  exercises of  evening; rows of small boys, washed and dressed to an intolerable state of discomfort; rows of gawky  boys; snowbanks of girls and young ladies clad in lawn and muslin and conspicuously conscious of their bare arms, their grandmothers’ ancient trinkets, their bits of pink and blue ribbon and  flowers in their hair. All  rest of  house  filled with -participating scholars.  exercises began. A very little  stood up and sheepishly recited, “’d scarce expect one of my age to speak in public on  stage,” etc.—accompanying himself with  painfully exact and spasmodic gestures which a machine might have used—supposing  machine to be a trifle out of order.  he  through safely, though cruelly scared, and  a fine round of applause when he made  manufactured  and retired. A little shamefaced girl lisped, “Mary  a little lamb,” etc., performed a compassion-inspiring curtsy,   meed of applause, and  down flushed and happy.  Sawyer stepped forward with conceited confidence and soared into  unquenchable and indestructible “Give me liberty or give me death” speech, with fine fury and frantic gesticulation, and broke down in  middle of it. A ghastly stage-fright seized ,  legs quaked under  and he  like to choke. True, he   manifest sympathy of  house  he   house’s silence, , which  even worse than its sympathy.  master frowned, and this completed  disaster.  struggled awhile and then retired, utterly defeated. There  a weak attempt at applause,  it died early. “  Stood on  Burning Deck” followed; also “ Assyrian Came Down,” and other declamatory gems. Then there were reading exercises, and a spelling fight.  meagre Latin class recited with honor.  prime feature of  evening  in order, —original “compositions” by  young ladies. Each in  turn stepped forward to  edge of  platform, cleared  throat, held up  manuscript (tied with dainty ribbon), and proceeded to read, with labored attention to “expression” and punctuation.  themes were  same that  been illuminated upon similar occasions by their mothers before them, their grandmothers, and doubtless all their ancestors in  female line clear back to  Crusades. “Friendship”  one; “Memories of Other Days”; “Religion in History”; “Dream Land”; “ Advantages of Culture”; “Forms of Political Government Compared and Contrasted”; “Melancholy”; “Filial Love”; “Heart Longings,” etc., etc. A prevalent feature in these compositions  a nursed and petted melancholy; another  a wasteful and opulent gush of “fine language”; another  a tendency to  in by  ears particularly prized words and phrases until they were worn entirely out; and a peculiarity that conspicuously marked and marred them   inveterate and intolerable sermon that wagged its crippled tail at  end of each and every one of them. No matter what  subject might be, a brainracking effort  made to squirm it into some aspect or other that  moral and religious mind could contemplate with edification.  glaring insincerity of these sermons   sufficient to compass  banishment of  fashion from  schools, and it is  sufficient today; it never will be sufficient while  world stands, perhaps. There is no school in all our land where  young ladies do  feel obliged to close their compositions with a sermon; and  will find that  sermon of  most frivolous and  least religious girl in  school is always  longest and  most relentlessly pious.  enough of this. Homely truth is unpalatable.  us return to  “Examination.”  first composition that  read  one entitled “Is this, then, Life?” Perhaps  reader  endure an extract from it: “In  common walks of life, with what delightful emotions does  youthful mind look forward to some anticipated scene of festivity! Imagination is busy sketching rose-tinted pictures of . In fancy,  voluptuous votary of fashion sees herself amid  festive throng, ‘ observed of all observers.’  graceful form, arrayed in snowy robes, is whirling through  mazes of  joyous dance;  eye is brightest,  step is lightest in   assembly. “In such delicious fancies time quickly glides by, and  welcome hour arrives   entrance into  Elysian world, of which    such bright dreams.  fairy-like does everything appear to  enchanted vision! Each  scene is more charming than  last.  after a while  finds that beneath this goodly exterior, all is vanity,  flattery which once charmed  soul,  grates harshly upon  ear;  ballroom  lost its charms; and with wasted health and imbittered heart,  turns away with  conviction that earthly pleasures cannot satisfy  longings of  soul!” And so forth and so on. There  a buzz of gratification from time to time during  reading, accompanied by whispered ejaculations of “ sweet!” “ eloquent!” “So true!” etc., and after  thing  closed with a peculiarly afflicting sermon  applause  enthusiastic. Then arose a slim, melancholy girl, whose face   “interesting” paleness that comes of pills and indigestion, and read a “poem.”  stanzas of it will do: “A MISSOURI MAIDEN’S FAREWELL TO ALABAMA “Alabama, goodbye! I love thee well!    a while do I leave thee ! , ,  thoughts of thee my heart doth swell, And burning recollections throng my brow!  I have wandered through  flowery woods; Have roamed and read near Tallapoosa’s stream; Have listened to Tallassee’s warring floods, And wooed on Coosa’s side Aurora’s beam. “ shame I  to bear an o’erfull heart,  blush to turn behind my tearful eyes; ’ from no stranger land I  must part, ’ to no strangers left I yield these sighs. Welcome and home were mine within this State, Whose vales I leave—whose spires fade fast from me And cold must be mine eyes, and heart, and tete, When, dear Alabama! they turn cold on thee!” There were very  there  knew what “tete” meant,   poem  very satisfactory, nevertheless. Next appeared a dark-complexioned, black-eyed, black-haired young lady,  paused an impressive moment, assumed a tragic expression, and began to read in a measured, solemn tone: “A VISION “Dark and tempestuous  night. Around  throne on high  a single star quivered;   deep intonations of  heavy thunder constantly vibrated upon  ear; whilst  terrific lightning revelled in angry mood through  cloudy chambers of heaven, seeming to scorn  power exerted over its terror by  illustrious Franklin! Even  boisterous winds unanimously came forth from their mystic homes, and blustered about as if to enhance by their aid  wildness of  scene. “At such a time, so dark, so dreary,  human sympathy my very spirit sighed;  instead thereof, “‘My dearest friend, my counsellor, my comforter and guide—My  in grief, my second bliss in ,’ came to my side.  moved like one of those bright beings pictured in  sunny walks of fancy’s Eden by  romantic and young, a queen of beauty unadorned save by  own transcendent loveliness. So soft   step, it failed to make even a sound, and    magical thrill imparted by  genial touch, as other unobtrusive beauties,  would have glided away unperceived—unsought. A strange sadness rested upon  features, like icy tears upon  robe of December, as  pointed to  contending elements without, and bade me contemplate   beings presented.” This nightmare occupied some  pages of manuscript and wound up with a sermon so destructive of all hope to -Presbyterians that it took  first prize. This composition  considered to be  very finest effort of  evening.  mayor of  village, in delivering  prize to  author of it, made a warm speech in which he said that it  by   most “eloquent” thing he  ever listened to, and that Daniel Webster himself might well be proud of it. It  be remarked, in passing, that  number of compositions in which  word “beauteous”  over-fondled, and human experience referred to as “life’s page,”  up to  usual average.   master, mellow almost to  verge of geniality,   chair aside, turned  back to  audience, and began to draw a  of America on  blackboard, to exercise  geography class upon.  he made a  business of it with  unsteady hand, and a smothered titter rippled over  house. He knew what  matter , and  himself to right it. He sponged out lines and remade them;  he only distorted them more than ever, and  tittering  more pronounced. He threw  entire attention upon  work, , as if determined  to be  down by  mirth. He felt that all eyes were fastened upon ; he imagined he  succeeding, and   tittering continued; it even manifestly increased. And well it might. There  a garret above, pierced with a scuttle over  head; and down through this scuttle came a , suspended around  haunches by a string;   a  tied about  head and jaws to keep  from mewing; as  slowly descended  curved upward and clawed at  string,  swung downward and clawed at  intangible air.  tittering rose higher and higher—   within  inches of  absorbed teacher’s head—down, down, a little lower, and  grabbed   with  desperate claws, clung to it, and  snatched up into  garret in an instant with  trophy still in  possession! And   light  blaze abroad from  master’s bald pate—  signpainter’s   gilded it! That broke up  meeting.  boys were avenged. Vacation  come. NOTE:— pretended “compositions” quoted in this chapter are taken without alteration from a volume entitled “Prose and Poetry, by a Western Lady”— they are exactly and precisely after  schoolgirl pattern, and hence are much happier than any mere imitations could be. CHAPTER XXII  joined   order of Cadets of Temperance, being attracted by  showy character of their “regalia.” He promised to abstain from smoking, chewing, and profanity as long as he remained a member.  he found out a  thing—namely, that to promise  to do a thing is  surest  in  world to make a body want to go and do that very thing.  soon found himself tormented with a desire to drink and swear;  desire grew to be so intense that nothing   hope of a chance to display himself in   sash kept  from withdrawing from  order. Fourth of July  coming;  he soon gave that up—gave it up before he  worn  shackles over forty-eight hours—and fixed  hopes upon old Judge Frazer, justice of  peace,   apparently on  deathbed and would have a  public funeral, since he  so high an official. During three days   deeply concerned about  Judge’s condition and hungry  news of it. Sometimes  hopes  high—so high that he would venture to  out  regalia and practise before  looking-glass.   Judge  a most discouraging  of fluctuating. At last he  pronounced upon  mend—and then convalescent.   disgusted; and felt a sense of injury, . He handed in  resignation at once—and that night  Judge suffered a relapse and died.  resolved that he would never trust a  like that again.  funeral  a fine thing.  Cadets paraded in a style calculated to kill  late member with envy.   a free  again, however—there  something in that. He could drink and swear, — found to  surprise that he   want to.  simple fact that he could, took  desire away, and  charm of it.  presently wondered to find that  coveted vacation  beginning to hang a little heavily on  hands. He attempted a diary— nothing happened during three days, and so he abandoned it.  first of all  negro minstrel shows came to town, and made a sensation.  and  Harper  up a band of performers and were happy   days. Even  Glorious Fourth  in some sense a failure,  it rained hard, there  no procession in consequence, and  greatest  in  world (as  supposed), Mr. Benton, an actual United States Senator, proved an overwhelming disappointment— he   twenty-five feet high,  even anywhere in  neighborhood of it. A circus came.  boys played circus  three days afterward in tents made of  carpeting—admission, three pins  boys,   girls—and then circusing  abandoned. A phrenologist and a mesmerizer came—and went again and left  village duller and drearier than ever. There were some boys-and-girls’ parties,  they were so  and so delightful that they only made  aching voids between ache  harder. Becky Thatcher  gone to  Constantinople home to stay with  parents during vacation—so there  no bright side to life anywhere.  dreadful secret of  murder  a chronic misery. It  a very cancer  permanency and pain. Then came  measles. During  long weeks   a prisoner, dead to  world and its happenings. He  very ill, he  interested in nothing. When he  upon  feet at last and moved feebly downtown, a melancholy change  come over everything and every creature. There  been a “revival,” and everybody  “ religion,”  only  adults,  even  boys and girls.  went about, hoping against hope   sight of one blessed sinful face,  disappointment crossed  everywhere. He found  Harper studying a Testament, and turned sadly away from  depressing spectacle. He sought  Rogers, and found  visiting  poor with a basket of tracts. He hunted up  Hollis,  called  attention to  precious blessing of  late measles as a warning. Every  he encountered added another  to  depression; and when, in desperation, he flew  refuge at last to  bosom of Huckleberry Finn and  received with a Scriptural quotation,  heart broke and he crept home and to  realizing that he alone of all  town  lost, forever and forever. And that night there came on a terrific storm, with driving rain, awful claps of thunder and blinding sheets of lightning. He covered  head with  bedclothes and waited in a horror of suspense   doom;  he    shadow of a doubt that all this hubbub  about . He believed he  taxed  forbearance of  powers above to  extremity of endurance and that this   result. It might have seemed to  a waste of pomp and ammunition to kill a  with a battery of artillery,  there seemed nothing incongruous about  getting up such an expensive thunderstorm as this to knock  turf from under an insect like himself. By and by  tempest spent itself and died without accomplishing its object.  ’s first impulse  to be grateful, and reform.  second  to wait— there might  be any more storms.  next   doctors were back;   relapsed.  three weeks he spent on  back this time seemed an entire age. When he  abroad at last he  hardly grateful that he  been spared, remembering  lonely   estate,  companionless and forlorn he . He drifted listlessly down  street and found  Hollis acting as judge in a juvenile court that  trying a   murder, in  presence of  victim, a bird. He found  Harper and Huck Finn up an alley eating a stolen melon. Poor lads! they—like — suffered a relapse. CHAPTER XXIII AT last  sleepy atmosphere  stirred—and vigorously:  murder trial came on in  court. It became  absorbing topic of village talk immediately.  could   away from it. Every reference to  murder sent a shudder to  heart,   troubled conscience and fears almost persuaded  that these remarks were  forth in  hearing as “feelers”; he     he could be suspected of knowing anything about  murder,  still he could  be comfortable in  midst of this gossip. It kept  in a cold shiver all  time. He took Huck to a lonely place to have a talk with . It would be some relief to unseal  tongue  a little while; to divide  burden of distress with another sufferer. Moreover, he wanted to assure himself that Huck  remained discreet. “Huck, have  ever told anybody about—that?” “’Bout what?” “ know what.” “Oh—’course I haven’t.” “Never a word?” “Never a solitary word, so help me. What makes  ask?” “Well, I  afeard.” “,  Sawyer, we wouldn’t be alive  days if that  found out.  know that.”  felt more comfortable. After a pause: “Huck, they couldn’t anybody   to tell, could they?” “ me to tell? , if I wanted that halfbreed devil to drownd me they could  me to tell. They ain’t no different .” “Well, that’s all right, then. I reckon we’re safe as long as we keep .  ’s swear again, anyway. It’s more surer.” “I’m agreed.” So they swore again with dread solemnities. “What is  talk around, Huck? I’ve heard a power of it.” “Talk? Well, it’s just Muff Potter, Muff Potter, Muff Potter all  time. It keeps me in a sweat, constant, so’s I want to hide ’ers.” “That’s just  same  they go on round me. I reckon he’s a goner. ’t  feel sorry  , sometimes?” “Most always—most always. He ain’t no account;  then he hain’t ever done anything to hurt anybody. Just fishes a little, to  money to  drunk on—and loafs around considerable;  lord, we all do that—leastways most of us—preachers and such like.  he’s kind of good—he give me half a fish, once, when there warn’t enough  ; and lots of times he’s kind of stood by me when I  out of luck.” “Well, he’s mended kites  me, Huck, and knitted hooks on to my line. I wish we could   out of there.” “My! we couldn’t   out, . And besides, ’twouldn’t do any good; they’d ketch  again.” “—so they would.  I hate to hear ’em abuse  so like  dickens when he never done—that.” “I do , . Lord, I hear ’em  he’s  bloodiest looking villain in this country, and they wonder he wasn’t ever hung before.” “, they talk like that, all  time. I’ve heard ’em  that if he  to  free they’d lynch .” “And they’d do it, .”  boys  a long talk,  it brought them little comfort. As  twilight drew on, they found themselves hanging about  neighborhood of  little isolated jail, perhaps with an undefined hope that something would happen that might clear away their difficulties.  nothing happened; there seemed to be no angels or fairies interested in this luckless captive.  boys  as they  often done before—went to  cell grating and gave Potter some tobacco and matches. He  on  ground floor and there were no guards.  gratitude  their gifts  always smote their consciences before—it  deeper than ever, this time. They felt cowardly and treacherous to  last degree when Potter said: “’ve been mighty good to me, boys—better’n anybody else in this town. And I ’t forget it, I ’t. Often I says to myself, says I, ‘I used to mend all  boys’ kites and things, and show ’em where  good fishin’ places , and befriend ’em what I could, and  they’ve all forgot old Muff when he’s in trouble;   ’t, and Huck ’t—they ’t forget , says I, ‘and I ’t forget them.’ Well, boys, I done an awful thing—drunk and crazy at  time—that’s  only  I account  it—and  I  to swing  it, and it’s right. Right, and best, , I reckon—hope so, anyway. Well, we ’t talk about that. I ’t want to make  feel ; ’ve befriended me.  what I want to , is, ’t  ever  drunk—then  ’t ever  here. Stand a litter furder west—so—that’s it; it’s a prime comfort to  faces that’s friendly when a body’s in such a muck of trouble, and there ’t none come here  yourn. Good friendly faces—good friendly faces.  up on one another’s backs and  me touch ’em. That’s it. Shake hands—yourn’ll come through  bars,  mine’s  . Little hands, and weak— they’ve helped Muff Potter a power, and they’d help  more if they could.”  went home miserable, and  dreams that night were full of horrors.  next  and   after, he hung about  courtroom, drawn by an almost irresistible impulse to go in,  forcing himself to stay out. Huck  having  same experience. They studiously avoided each other. Each wandered away, from time to time,   same dismal fascination always brought them back presently.  kept  ears open when idlers sauntered out of  courtroom,  invariably heard distressing news— toils were closing more and more relentlessly around poor Potter. At  end of  second   village talk  to  effect that Injun ’s evidence stood firm and unshaken, and that there    slightest question as to what  jury’s verdict would be.   out late, that night, and came to  through  window. He  in a tremendous state of excitement. It  hours before he  to sleep. All  village flocked to  courthouse  next morning,  this  to be  great . Both sexes were about equally represented in  packed audience. After a long wait  jury filed in and took their places; shortly afterward, Potter, pale and haggard, timid and hopeless,  brought in, with chains upon , and seated where all  curious eyes could stare at ; no less conspicuous  Injun , stolid as ever. There  another pause, and then  judge arrived and  sheriff proclaimed  opening of  court.  usual whisperings among  lawyers and gathering together of papers followed. These details and accompanying delays worked up an atmosphere of preparation that  as impressive as it  fascinating.  a witness  called  testified that he found Muff Potter washing in  brook, at an early hour of  morning that  murder  discovered, and that he immediately sneaked away. After some further questioning, counsel   prosecution said: “Take  witness.”  prisoner raised  eyes  a moment,  dropped them again when  own counsel said: “I have no questions to ask .”  next witness proved  finding of  knife near  corpse. Counsel   prosecution said: “Take  witness.” “I have no questions to ask ,” Potter’s lawyer replied. A third witness swore he  often seen  knife in Potter’s possession. “Take  witness.” Counsel  Potter declined to question .  faces of  audience began to betray annoyance.  this attorney mean to throw away  client’s life without an effort? Several witnesses deposed concerning Potter’s guilty behavior when brought to  scene of  murder. They were allowed to leave  stand without being cross-questioned. Every detail of  damaging circumstances that occurred in  graveyard upon that morning which all present remembered so well  brought out by credible witnesses,  none of them were cross-examined by Potter’s lawyer.  perplexity and dissatisfaction of  house expressed itself in murmurs and provoked a reproof from  bench. Counsel   prosecution  said: “By  oaths of citizens whose simple word is above suspicion, we have fastened this awful crime, beyond all possibility of question, upon  unhappy prisoner at  . We rest our case here.” A groan escaped from poor Potter, and he   face in  hands and rocked  body softly to and , while a painful silence reigned in  courtroom. Many  were moved, and many women’s compassion testified itself in tears. Counsel   defence rose and said: “Your honor, in our remarks at  opening of this trial, we foreshadowed our purpose to prove that our client  this fearful deed while under  influence of a blind and irresponsible delirium produced by drink. We have changed our mind. We shall  offer that plea.” [Then to  clerk:] “Call Thomas Sawyer!” A puzzled amazement awoke in every face in  house,  even excepting Potter’s. Every eye fastened itself with wondering interest upon  as he rose and took  place upon  stand.   looked wild enough,  he  badly scared.  oath  administered. “Thomas Sawyer, where were  on  seventeenth of June, about  hour of midnight?”  glanced at Injun ’s iron face and  tongue failed .  audience listened breathless,   words refused to come. After a  moments, however,    a little of  strength back, and managed to  enough of it into  voice to make part of  house hear: “In  graveyard!” “A little  louder, please. ’t be afraid.  were—” “In  graveyard.” A contemptuous smile flitted across Injun ’s face. “Were  anywhere near Horse Williams’ grave?” “, .” “Speak up—just a trifle louder.  near were ?” “Near as I am to .” “Were  hidden, or ?” “I  .” “Where?” “Behind  elms that’s on  edge of  grave.” Injun  gave a barely perceptible start. “Any one with ?” “, . I went there with—” “Wait—wait a moment. Never mind mentioning your companion’s name. We will produce  at  proper time.   carry anything there with .”  hesitated and looked confused. “Speak out, my —’t be diffident.  truth is always respectable. What   take there?” “Only a—a—dead .” There  a ripple of mirth, which  court checked. “We will produce  skeleton of that . , my , tell us everything that occurred—tell it in your own —’t skip anything, and ’t be afraid.”  began—hesitatingly at first,  as he warmed to  subject  words flowed more and more easily; in a little while every sound ceased   own voice; every eye fixed itself upon ; with parted lips and bated breath  audience hung upon  words, taking no note of time, rapt in  ghastly fascinations of  tale.  strain upon pent emotion reached its climax when   said: “—and as  doctor fetched  board around and Muff Potter fell, Injun  jumped with  knife and—” Crash! Quick as lightning  halfbreed sprang  a window, tore   through all opposers, and  gone! CHAPTER XXIV   a glittering hero once more—  of  old,  envy of  young.  name even went into immortal print,   village paper magnified . There were some that believed he would be President, , if he escaped hanging. As usual,  fickle, unreasoning world took Muff Potter to its bosom and fondled  as lavishly as it  abused  before.  that sort of conduct is to  world’s credit; therefore it is  well to find fault with it. ’s days were days of splendor and exultation to ,   nights were seasons of horror. Injun  infested all  dreams, and always with doom in  eye. Hardly any temptation could persuade   to stir abroad after nightfall. Poor Huck  in  same state of wretchedness and terror,    told  whole story to  lawyer  night before  great  of  trial, and Huck  sore afraid that  share in  business might leak out, , notwithstanding Injun ’s flight  saved   suffering of testifying in court.  poor fellow    attorney to promise secrecy,  what of that? Since ’s harassed conscience  managed to drive  to  lawyer’s house by night and wring a dread tale from lips that  been sealed with  dismalest and most formidable of oaths, Huck’s confidence in  human race  wellnigh obliterated. Daily Muff Potter’s gratitude made  glad he  spoken;  nightly he wished he  sealed up  tongue. Half  time   afraid Injun  would never be captured;  other half he  afraid he would be. He felt sure he never could draw a safe breath again until that   dead and he  seen  corpse. Rewards  been offered,  country  been scoured,  no Injun   found. One of those omniscient and aweinspiring marvels, a detective, came up from St. Louis, moused around, shook  head, looked wise, and made that sort of astounding success which members of that craft usually achieve. That is to , he “found a clew.”   ’t hang a “clew”  murder, and so after that detective   through and gone home,  felt just as insecure as he  before.  slow days drifted on, and each left behind it a slightly lightened weight of apprehension. CHAPTER  THERE comes a time in every rightly-constructed ’s life when he  a raging desire to go somewhere and   hidden treasure. This desire suddenly came upon  one . He sallied out to find  Harper,  failed of success. Next he sought  Rogers; he  gone fishing. Presently he stumbled upon Huck Finn  -Handed. Huck would answer.  took  to a private place and opened  matter to  confidentially. Huck  willing. Huck  always willing to take a hand in any enterprise that offered entertainment and required no capital,  he  a troublesome superabundance of that sort of time which is  money. “Where’ll we ?” said Huck. “Oh, most anywhere.” “, is it  all around?” “No, indeed it ain’t. It’s  in mighty particular places, Huck—sometimes on islands, sometimes in rotten chests under  end of a limb of an old dead tree, just where  shadow falls at midnight;  mostly under  floor in ha’nted houses.” “ hides it?” “, robbers, of course—’d  reckon? Sunday-school ’rintendents?” “I ’t know. If ’twas mine I wouldn’t hide it; I’d spend it and have a good time.” “So would I.  robbers ’t do that . They always hide it and leave it there.” “’t they come after it any more?” “No, they think they will,  they generally forget  marks, or else they . Anyway, it lays there a long time and gets rusty; and by and by somebody finds an old yellow paper that tells  to find  marks—a paper that’s  to be ciphered over about a week because it’s mostly signs and hy’roglyphics.” “Hyro—which?” “Hy’roglyphics—pictures and things,  know, that ’t seem to mean anything.” “Have   one of them papers, ?” “No.” “Well then,   going to find  marks?” “I ’t want any marks. They always bury it under a ha’nted house or on an island, or under a dead tree that’s  one limb sticking out. Well, we’ve tried Jackson’s Island a little, and we   it again some time; and there’s  old ha’nted house up  Still-House branch, and there’s lots of dead-limb trees—dead loads of ’em.” “Is it under all of them?” “  talk! No!” “Then   going to know which one to go ?” “Go  all of ’em!” “, , it’ll take all summer.” “Well, what of that? Suppose  find a brass  with a hundred dollars in it, all rusty and gray, or rotten chest full of di’monds. ’s that?” Huck’s eyes glowed. “That’s bully. Plenty bully enough  me. Just  gimme  hundred dollars and I ’t want no di’monds.” “All right.  I   I ain’t going to throw off on di’monds. Some of ’em’s worth twenty dollars apiece—there ain’t any, hardly, ’s worth  bits or a dollar.” “No! Is that so?” “Cert’—anybody’ll tell  so. Hain’t  ever seen one, Huck?” “ as I remember.” “Oh, kings have slathers of them.” “Well, I ’ know no kings, .” “I reckon  ’t.  if   to go to Europe ’d  a raft of ’em hopping around.” “Do they ?” “?—your granny! No!” “Well, what    they , ?” “Shucks, I only meant ’d  ’em— hopping, of course—what do they want to  ?— I mean ’d just  ’em—scattered around,  know, in a kind of a general . Like that old humpbacked Richard.” “Richard? What’s  other name?” “He didn’t have any other name. Kings ’t have any  a given name.” “No?” “ they ’t.” “Well, if they like it, , all right;  I ’t want to be a king and have only just a given name, like a nigger.  —where  going to  first?” “Well, I ’t know. S’pose we tackle that old dead-limb tree on  hill t’other side of Still-House branch?” “I’m agreed.” So they  a crippled pick and a shovel, and  out on their three-mile tramp. They arrived  and panting, and threw themselves down in  shade of a neighboring elm to rest and have a smoke. “I like this,” said . “So do I.” “, Huck, if we find a treasure here, what  going to do with your share?” “Well, I’ll have  and a glass of soda every , and I’ll go to every circus that comes along. I  I’ll have a  time.” “Well, ain’t  going to save any of it?” “Save it? What ?” “, so as to have something to live on, by and by.” “Oh, that ain’t any use.  would come back to thish- town some  and   claws on it if I didn’t hurry up, and I tell  he’d clean it out pretty quick. What  going to do with yourn, ?” “I’m going to  a  drum, and a sure’nough sword, and a  necktie and a bull , and  married.” “Married!” “That’s it.” “, —,  ain’t in your right mind.” “Wait—’ll .” “Well, that’s  foolishest thing  could do. Look at  and my mother. Fight! , they used to fight all  time. I remember, mighty well.” “That ain’t anything.  girl I’m going to marry ’t fight.” “, I reckon they’re all alike. They’ll all comb a body.   better think ’bout this awhile. I tell   better. What’s  name of  ?” “It ain’t a  at all—it’s a girl.” “It’s all  same, I reckon; some says , some says girl—both’s right, like enough. Anyway, what’s  name, ?” “I’ll tell  some time— .” “All right—that’ll do. Only if   married I’ll be more lonesomer than ever.” “No  ’t. ’ll come and live with me.  stir out of this and we’ll go to digging.” They worked and sweated  half an hour. No result. They toiled another halfhour. Still no result. Huck said: “Do they always bury it as deep as this?” “Sometimes— always.  generally. I reckon we haven’t   right place.” So they chose a  spot and began again.  labor dragged a little,  still they made progress. They pegged away in silence  some time. Finally Huck leaned on  shovel, swabbed  beaded drops from  brow with  sleeve, and said: “Where  going to  next, after we  this one?” “I reckon maybe we’ll tackle  old tree that’s over yonder on Cardiff Hill back of  widow’s.” “I reckon that’ll be a good one.  ’t  widow take it away from us, ? It’s on  land.” “ take it away! Maybe ’d like to  it once. Whoever finds one of these  treasures, it belongs to . It ’t make any difference whose land it’s on.” That  satisfactory.  work went on. By and by Huck said: “Blame it, we must be in  wrong place again. What do  think?” “It is mighty curious, Huck. I ’t understand it. Sometimes witches interfere. I reckon maybe that’s what’s  trouble .” “Shucks! Witches ain’t  no power in  daytime.” “Well, that’s so. I didn’t think of that. Oh, I know what  matter is! What a blamed  of fools we are!   to find out where  shadow of  limb falls at midnight, and that’s where  !” “Then consound it, we’ve fooled away all this work  nothing.  hang it all, we  to come back in  night. It’s an awful long .    out?” “I  I will. We’ve  to do it tonight, , because if somebody sees these holes they’ll know in a minute what’s here and they’ll go  it.” “Well, I’ll come around and maow tonight.” “All right. ’s hide  tools in  bushes.”  boys were there that night, about  appointed time. They  in  shadow waiting. It  a lonely place, and an hour made solemn by old traditions. Spirits whispered in  rustling leaves, ghosts lurked in  murky nooks,  deep baying of a hound floated up out of  distance, an owl answered with  sepulchral note.  boys were subdued by these solemnities, and talked little. By and by they judged that twelve  come; they marked where  shadow fell, and began to . Their hopes commenced to rise. Their interest grew stronger, and their industry kept pace with it.  hole deepened and still deepened,  every time their hearts jumped to hear  pick strike upon something, they only suffered a  disappointment. It  only a stone or a chunk. At last  said: “It ain’t any use, Huck, we’re wrong again.” “Well,  we ’t be wrong. We spotted  shadder to a .” “I know it,  then there’s another thing.” “What’s that?”. “, we only guessed at  time. Like enough it   late or  early.” Huck dropped  shovel. “That’s it,” said he. “That’s  very trouble. We  to give this one up. We ’t ever tell  right time, and besides this kind of thing’s  awful, here this time of night with witches and ghosts a-fluttering around so. I feel as if something’s behind me all  time; and I’m afeard to turn around, becuz maybe there’s others in front a-waiting  a chance. I been creeping all over, ever since I  here.” “Well, I’ve been pretty much so, , Huck. They most always  in a dead  when they bury a treasure under a tree, to look out  it.” “Lordy!” “, they do. I’ve always heard that.” “, I ’t like to fool around much where there’s dead people. A body’s bound to  into trouble with ’em, sure.” “I ’t like to stir ’em up, either. S’pose this one here  to stick  skull out and  something!” “’t ! It’s awful.” “Well, it just is. Huck, I ’t feel comfortable a .” “, , ’s give this place up, and  somewheres else.” “All right, I reckon we better.” “What’ll it be?”  considered awhile; and then said: “ ha’nted house. That’s it!” “Blame it, I ’t like ha’nted houses, . , they’re a dern sight worse’n dead people. Dead people might talk, maybe,  they ’t come sliding around in a shroud, when  ain’t noticing, and peep over your shoulder all of a sudden and grit their teeth,   a ghost does. I couldn’t stand such a thing as that, —nobody could.” “, , Huck, ghosts ’t travel around only at night. They ’t hender us from digging there in  daytime.” “Well, that’s so.   know mighty well people ’t go about that ha’nted house in     night.” “Well, that’s mostly because they ’t like to go where a ’s been murdered, anyway— nothing’s ever been seen around that house except in  night—just some blue lights slipping by  windows—no regular ghosts.” “Well, where   one of them blue lights flickering around, ,    there’s a ghost mighty close behind it. It stands to reason. Becuz  know that they ’t anybody  ghosts use ’em.” “, that’s so.  anyway they ’t come around in  daytime, so what’s  use of our being afeard?” “Well, all right. We’ll tackle  ha’nted house if   so— I reckon it’s taking chances.” They  started down  hill by this time. There in  middle of  moonlit valley below them stood  “ha’nted” house, utterly isolated, its fences gone long ago, rank weeds smothering  very doorsteps,  chimney crumbled to ruin,  window-sashes vacant, a corner of  roof caved in.  boys gazed awhile, half expecting to  a blue light flit past a window; then talking in a  tone, as befitted  time and  circumstances, they struck  off to  right, to give  haunted house a wide berth, and took their  homeward through  woods that adorned  rearward side of Cardiff Hill. CHAPTER XXVI ABOUT noon  next   boys arrived at  dead tree; they  come  their tools.   impatient to go to  haunted house; Huck  measurably so, also— suddenly said: “Lookyhere, , do  know what  it is?”  mentally  over  days of  week, and then quickly lifted  eyes with a startled look in them— “My! I never once thought of it, Huck!” “Well, I didn’t neither,  all at once it popped onto me that it  Friday.” “Blame it, a body ’t be  careful, Huck. We might ’a’  into an awful scrape, tackling such a thing on a Friday.” “Might! Better  we would! There’s some lucky days, maybe,  Friday ain’t.” “Any fool knows that. I ’t reckon    first that found it out, Huck.” “Well, I never said I ,  I? And Friday ain’t all, neither. I  a rotten  dream last night—dreampt about rats.” “No! Sure sign of trouble.  they fight?” “No.” “Well, that’s good, Huck. When they ’t fight it’s only a sign that there’s trouble around,  know. All we  to do is to look mighty sharp and keep out of it. We’ll drop this thing  today, and play. Do  know Robin Hood, Huck?” “No. ’s Robin Hood?” “, he  one of  greatest  that  ever in England—and  best. He  a robber.” “Cracky, I wisht I .   he ?” “Only sheriffs and bishops and rich people and kings, and such like.  he never bothered  poor. He loved ’em. He always divided up with ’em perfectly square.” “Well, he must ’a’ been a brick.” “I   he , Huck. Oh, he   noblest  that ever . They ain’t any such  , I  tell . He could lick any  in England, with one hand tied behind ; and he could take    and plug a -cent piece every time, a mile and a half.” “What’s a  ?” “I ’t know. It’s some kind of a , of course. And if he  that dime only on  edge he would  down and —and curse.  we’ll play Robin Hood—it’s nobby . I’ll learn .” “I’m agreed.” So they played Robin Hood all  afternoon,  and then casting a yearning eye down upon  haunted house and passing a remark about  morrow’s prospects and possibilities there. As   began to sink into  west they took their  homeward athwart  long shadows of  trees and soon were buried from sight in  forests of Cardiff Hill. On Saturday, shortly after noon,  boys were at  dead tree again. They  a smoke and a chat in  shade, and then  a little in their last hole,  with great hope,  merely because  said there were so many cases where people  given up a treasure after getting down within  inches of it, and then somebody else  come along and turned it up with a single thrust of a shovel.  thing failed this time, however, so  boys shouldered their tools and went away feeling that they   trifled with fortune,   fulfilled all  requirements that belong to  business of treasure-hunting. When they reached  haunted house there  something so weird and grisly about  dead silence that reigned there under  baking , and something so depressing about  loneliness and desolation of  place, that they were afraid,  a moment, to venture in. Then they crept to  door and took a trembling peep. They  a weedgrown, floorless room, unplastered, an ancient fireplace, vacant windows, a ruinous staircase; and here, there, and everywhere hung ragged and abandoned cobwebs. They presently entered, softly, with quickened pulses, talking in whispers, ears alert to catch  slightest sound, and muscles tense and ready  instant retreat. In a little while familiarity modified their fears and they gave  place a critical and interested examination, rather admiring their own boldness, and wondering at it, . Next they wanted to look upstairs. This  something like cutting off retreat,  they  to daring each other, and of course there could be  one result—they threw their tools into a corner and made  ascent. Up there were  same signs of decay. In one corner they found a closet that promised mystery,   promise  a fraud—there  nothing in it. Their courage  up  and well in hand. They were about to go down and begin work when— “Sh!” said . “What is it?” whispered Huck, blanching with fright. “Sh!... There!... Hear it?” “!... Oh, my! ’s !” “Keep still! ’t  budge! They’re coming right toward  door.”  boys stretched themselves upon  floor with their eyes to knotholes in  planking, and  waiting, in a misery of fear. “They’ve stopped.... No—coming.... Here they are. ’t whisper another word, Huck. My goodness, I wish I  out of this!”   entered. Each  said to himself: “There’s  old deaf and dumb Spaniard that’s been about town once or twice lately—never  t’other  before.” “T’other”  a ragged, unkempt creature, with nothing very pleasant in  face.  Spaniard  wrapped in a serape; he  bushy white whiskers; long white hair flowed from under  sombrero, and he wore green goggles. When they came in, “t’other”  talking in a  voice; they  down on  ground, facing  door, with their backs to  wall, and  speaker continued  remarks.  manner became less guarded and  words more distinct as he proceeded: “No,” said he, “I’ve thought it all over, and I ’t like it. It’s dangerous.” “Dangerous!” grunted  “deaf and dumb” Spaniard—to  vast surprise of  boys. “Milksop!” This voice made  boys gasp and quake. It  Injun ’s! There  silence  some time. Then  said: “What’s any more dangerous than that  up yonder— nothing’s come of it.” “That’s different. Away up  river so, and  another house about. ’Twon’t ever be known that we tried, anyway, long as we didn’t succeed.” “Well, what’s more dangerous than coming here in  daytime!—anybody would suspicion us that  us.” “I know that.  there warn’t any other place as handy after that fool of a . I want to quit this shanty. I wanted to yesterday, only it warn’t any use trying to stir out of here, with those infernal boys playing over there on  hill right in full view.” “Those infernal boys” quaked again under  inspiration of this remark, and thought  lucky it  that they  remembered it  Friday and concluded to wait a . They wished in their hearts they  waited a year.     out some food and made a luncheon. After a long and thoughtful silence, Injun  said: “Look here, — go back up  river where  belong. Wait there till  hear from me. I’ll take  chances on dropping into this town just once more,  a look. We’ll do that ‘dangerous’  after I’ve spied around a little and think things look well  it. Then  Texas! We’ll  it together!” This  satisfactory. Both  presently fell to yawning, and Injun  said: “I’m dead  sleep! It’s your turn to watch.” He curled down in  weeds and soon began to snore.  comrade stirred  once or twice and he became quiet. Presently  watcher began to ;  head drooped lower and lower, both  began to snore .  boys drew a long, grateful breath.  whispered: “’s our chance—come!” Huck said: “I ’t—I’d  if they  to wake.”  urged—Huck held back. At last  rose slowly and softly, and started alone.   first step he made wrung such a hideous creak from  crazy floor that he sank down almost dead with fright. He never made a second attempt.  boys  there counting  dragging moments till it seemed to them that time must be done and eternity growing gray; and then they were grateful to note that at last    setting.  one snore ceased. Injun   up, stared around—smiled grimly upon  comrade, whose head  drooping upon  knees—stirred  up with  foot and said: “Here! ’re a watchman, ain’t ! All right, though—nothing’s happened.” “My! have I been asleep?” “Oh, partly, partly. Nearly time  us to be moving, pard. What’ll we do with what little swag we’ve  left?” “I ’t know—leave it here as we’ve always done, I reckon. No use to take it away till we start south.  hundred and fifty in silver’s something to carry.” “Well—all right—it ’t matter to come here once more.” “No— I’d  come in  night as we used to do—it’s better.” “:  look here; it  be a good while before I   right chance at that ; accidents might happen; ’tain’t in such a very good place; we’ll just regularly bury it—and bury it deep.” “Good idea,” said  comrade,  walked across  room, knelt down, raised one of  rearward hearth-stones and took out a  that jingled pleasantly. He subtracted from it twenty or thirty dollars  himself and as much  Injun , and passed   to  latter,   on  knees in  corner, , digging with  bowie-knife.  boys forgot all their fears, all their miseries in an instant. With gloating eyes they watched every movement. Luck!— splendor of it  beyond all imagination!  hundred dollars  money enough to make half a dozen boys rich! Here  treasure-hunting under  happiest auspices—there would  be any bothersome uncertainty as to where to . They nudged each other every moment—eloquent nudges and easily understood,  they simply meant—“Oh,  ain’t  glad  we’re here!” ’s knife struck upon something. “Hello!” said he. “What is it?” said  comrade. “Half-rotten plank—no, it’s a , I believe. Here—bear a hand and we’ll  what it’s here . Never mind, I’ve broke a hole.” He reached  hand in and drew it out— “, it’s money!”    examined  handful of coins. They were gold.  boys above were as excited as themselves, and as delighted. ’s comrade said: “We’ll make quick work of this. There’s an old rusty pick over amongst  weeds in  corner  other side of  fireplace—I  it a minute ago.” He  and brought  boys’ pick and shovel. Injun  took  pick, looked it over critically, shook  head, muttered something to himself, and then began to use it.    soon unearthed. It   very large; it  iron bound and  been very strong before  slow years  injured it.   contemplated  treasure awhile in blissful silence. “Pard, there’s thousands of dollars here,” said Injun . “’Twas always said that Murrel’s gang used to be around here one summer,”  stranger observed. “I know it,” said Injun ; “and this looks like it, I should .” “  ’t need to do that .”  halfbreed frowned. Said he: “ ’t know me. Least  ’t know all about that thing. ’Tain’t robbery altogether—it’s revenge!” and a wicked light flamed in  eyes. “I’ll need your help in it. When it’s finished—then Texas. Go home to your Nance and your kids, and stand by till  hear from me.” “Well—if   so; what’ll we do with this—bury it again?” “. [Ravishing delight overhead.] No! by  great Sachem, no! [Profound distress overhead.] I’d nearly forgot. That pick  fresh earth on it! [ boys were sick with terror in a moment.] What business  a pick and a shovel here? What business with fresh earth on them?  brought them here—and where are they gone? Have  heard anybody?—seen anybody? What! bury it again and leave them to come and   ground disturbed?  exactly— exactly. We’ll take it to my .” “, of course! Might have thought of that before.  mean Number One?” “No—Number —under  cross.  other place is — common.” “All right. It’s nearly dark enough to start.” Injun   up and went about from window to window cautiously peeping out. Presently he said: “ could have brought those tools here? Do  reckon they  be upstairs?”  boys’ breath forsook them. Injun    hand on  knife, halted a moment, undecided, and then turned toward  stairway.  boys thought of  closet,  their strength  gone.  steps came creaking up  stairs— intolerable distress of  situation woke  stricken resolution of  lads—they were about to spring   closet, when there  a crash of rotten timbers and Injun  landed on  ground amid  debris of  ruined stairway. He gathered himself up cursing, and  comrade said: “ what’s  use of all that? If it’s anybody, and they’re up there,  them stay there— cares? If they want to jump down, , and  into trouble,  objects? It will be dark in fifteen minutes—and then  them follow us if they want to. I’m willing. In my opinion, whoever hove those things in here caught a sight of us and took us  ghosts or devils or something. I’ll  they’re running .”  grumbled awhile; then he agreed with  friend that what daylight  left ought to be economized in getting things ready  leaving. Shortly afterward they slipped out of  house in  deepening twilight, and moved toward  river with their precious .  and Huck rose up, weak  vastly relieved, and stared after them through  chinks between  logs of  house. Follow?  they. They were content to reach ground again without broken necks, and take  townward track over  hill. They   talk much. They were  much absorbed in hating themselves—hating  ill luck that made them take  spade and  pick there.   that, Injun  never would have suspected. He would have hidden  silver with  gold to wait there till  “revenge”  satisfied, and then he would have   misfortune to find that money turn up missing. Bitter, bitter luck that  tools were ever brought there! They resolved to keep a lookout  that Spaniard when he should come to town spying out  chances to do  revengeful , and follow  to “Number ,” wherever that might be. Then a ghastly thought occurred to . “Revenge? What if he means us, Huck!” “Oh, ’t!” said Huck, nearly fainting. They talked it all over, and as they entered town they agreed to believe that he might possibly mean somebody else—at least that he might at least mean nobody  , since only   testified. Very, very small comfort it  to  to be alone in danger! Company would be a palpable improvement, he thought. CHAPTER XXVII  adventure of   mightily tormented ’s dreams that night. Four times he   hands on that rich treasure and four times it wasted to nothingness in  fingers as sleep forsook  and wakefulness brought back  hard reality of  misfortune. As he  in  early morning recalling  incidents of  great adventure, he noticed that they seemed curiously subdued and  away—somewhat as if they  happened in another world, or in a time long gone by. Then it occurred to  that  great adventure itself must be a dream! There  one very strong argument in favor of this idea—namely, that  quantity of coin he  seen   vast to be real. He  never seen as much as fifty dollars in one mass before, and he  like all boys of  age and station in life, in that he imagined that all references to “hundreds” and “thousands” were mere fanciful forms of speech, and that no such sums really existed in  world. He never  supposed  a moment that so large a  as a hundred dollars  to be found in actual money in any one’s possession. If  notions of hidden treasure  been analyzed, they would have been found to consist of a handful of real dimes and a bushel of vague, splendid, ungraspable dollars.   incidents of  adventure grew sensibly sharper and clearer under  attrition of thinking them over, and so he presently found himself leaning to  impression that  thing might  have been a dream, after all. This uncertainty must be swept away. He would snatch a hurried breakfast and go and find Huck. Huck  sitting on  gunwale of a flatboat, listlessly dangling  feet in  water and looking very melancholy.  concluded to  Huck lead up to  subject. If he   do it, then  adventure would be proved to have been only a dream. “Hello, Huck!” “Hello, yourself.” Silence,  a minute. “, if we’d ’a’ left  blame tools at  dead tree, we’d ’a’   money. Oh, ain’t it awful!” “’Tain’t a dream, then, ’tain’t a dream! Somehow I most wish it . ’d if I ’t, Huck.” “What ain’t a dream?” “Oh, that thing yesterday. I been half thinking it .” “Dream! If them stairs hadn’t broke down ’d ’a’ seen  much dream it ! I’ve  dreams enough all night—with that patch-eyed Spanish devil going  me all through ’em— !” “No,   . Find ! Track  money!” “, we’ll never find . A feller ’t have only one chance  such a pile—and that one’s lost. I’d feel mighty shaky if I  to  , anyway.” “Well, so’d I;  I’d like to  , anyway—and track  out—to  Number .” “Number —, that’s it. I been thinking ’bout that.  I ’t make nothing out of it. What do  reckon it is?” “I dono. It’s  deep. , Huck—maybe it’s  number of a house!” “Goody!... No, , that ain’t it. If it is, it ain’t in this one-horse town. They ain’t no numbers here.” “Well, that’s so. Lemme think a minute. Here—it’s  number of a room—in a tavern,  know!” “Oh, that’s  trick! They ain’t only  taverns. We  find out quick.” “ stay here, Huck, till I come.”   off at once. He   care to have Huck’s company in public places. He  gone half an hour. He found that in  best tavern, No. 2  long been occupied by a young lawyer, and  still so occupied. In  less ostentatious house, No. 2  a mystery.  tavern-keeper’s young  said it  kept locked all  time, and he never  anybody go into it or come out of it except at night; he   know any particular reason  this state of things;   some little curiosity,  it  rather feeble;  made  most of  mystery by entertaining himself with  idea that that room  “ha’nted”;  noticed that there  a light in there  night before. “That’s what I’ve found out, Huck. I reckon that’s  very No. 2 we’re after.” “I reckon it is, .  what  going to do?” “Lemme think.”  thought a long time. Then he said: “I’ll tell .  back door of that No. 2 is  door that comes out into that little close alley between  tavern and  old rattle trap of a brick store.    hold of all  doorkeys   find, and I’ll  all of auntie’s, and  first dark night we’ll go there and  ’em. And mind , keep a lookout  Injun , because he said he  going to drop into town and  around once more  a chance to   revenge. If   ,  just follow ; and if he ’t go to that No. 2, that ain’t  place.” “Lordy, I ’t want to foller  by myself!” “, it’ll be night, sure. He mightn’t ever  —and if he , maybe he’d never think anything.” “Well, if it’s pretty dark I reckon I’ll track . I dono—I dono. I’ll .” “  I’ll follow , if it’s dark, Huck. , he might ’a’ found out he couldn’t   revenge, and be going right after that money.” “It’s so, , it’s so. I’ll foller ; I will, by jingoes!” “ ’re talking! ’t  ever weaken, Huck, and I ’t.” CHAPTER XXVIII THAT night  and Huck were ready  their adventure. They hung about  neighborhood of  tavern until after nine, one watching  alley at a distance and  other  tavern door. Nobody entered  alley or left it; nobody resembling  Spaniard entered or left  tavern door.  night promised to be a fair one; so  went home with  understanding that if a considerable degree of darkness came on, Huck  to come and “maow,” whereupon he would slip out and   keys.   night remained clear, and Huck closed  watch and retired to  in an empty sugar hogshead about twelve. Tuesday  boys   same ill luck. Also Wednesday.  Thursday night promised better.  slipped out in good season with  aunt’s old  lantern, and a large towel to blindfold it with. He   lantern in Huck’s sugar hogshead and  watch began. An hour before midnight  tavern closed up and its lights ( only ones thereabouts) were  out. No Spaniard  been seen. Nobody  entered or left  alley. Everything  auspicious.  blackness of darkness reigned,  perfect stillness  interrupted only by occasional mutterings of distant thunder.    lantern,  it in  hogshead, wrapped it closely in  towel, and   adventurers crept in  gloom toward  tavern. Huck stood sentry and  felt   into  alley. Then there  a season of waiting anxiety that weighed upon Huck’s spirits like a mountain. He began to wish he could  a flash from  lantern—it would frighten ,  it would at least tell  that   alive . It seemed hours since   disappeared. Surely he must have fainted; maybe he  dead; maybe  heart  burst under terror and excitement. In  uneasiness Huck found himself drawing closer and closer to  alley; fearing all sorts of dreadful things, and momentarily expecting some catastrophe to happen that would take away  breath. There   much to take away,  he seemed only able to inhale it by thimblefuls, and  heart would soon wear itself out,   it  beating. Suddenly there  a flash of light and  came tearing by : “!” said he; “,  your life!” He needn’t have repeated it; once  enough; Huck  making thirty or forty miles an hour before  repetition  uttered.  boys never stopped till they reached  shed of a deserted slaughter-house at  lower end of  village. Just as they  within its shelter  storm burst and  rain poured down. As soon as    breath he said: “Huck, it  awful! I tried  of  keys, just as soft as I could;  they seemed to make such a power of racket that I couldn’t hardly  my breath I  so scared. They wouldn’t turn in  lock, either. Well, without noticing what I  doing, I took hold of  knob, and open comes  door! It warn’t locked! I hopped in, and shook off  towel, and, Great Caesar’s Ghost!” “What!—what’d  , ?” “Huck, I most stepped onto Injun ’s hand!” “No!” “! He  lying there, sound asleep on  floor, with  old patch on  eye and  arms spread out.” “Lordy, what   do?  he wake up?” “No, never budged. Drunk, I reckon. I just grabbed that towel and started!” “I’d never ’a’ thought of  towel, I !” “Well, I would. My aunt would make me mighty sick if I lost it.” “, ,    that ?” “Huck, I didn’t wait to look around. I didn’t   , I didn’t   cross. I didn’t  anything  a bottle and a   on  floor by Injun ; , I   barrels and lots more bottles in  room. ’t  , , what’s  matter with that ha’nted room?” “?” “, it’s ha’nted with whiskey! Maybe all  Temperance Taverns have  a ha’nted room, , Huck?” “Well, I reckon maybe that’s so. ’d ’a’ thought such a thing?  , , ’s a mighty good time to  that , if Injun ’s drunk.” “It is, that!   it!” Huck shuddered. “Well, no—I reckon .” “And I reckon , Huck. Only one bottle alongside of Injun  ain’t enough. If there’d been three, he’d be drunk enough and I’d do it.” There  a long pause  reflection, and then  said: “Lookyhere, Huck, less   that thing any more till we know Injun ’s  in there. It’s  scary. , if we watch every night, we’ll be dead sure to   go out, some time or other, and then we’ll snatch that  quicker’n lightning.” “Well, I’m agreed. I’ll watch  whole night long, and I’ll do it every night, , if ’ll do  other part of  .” “All right, I will. All   to do is to trot up Hooper Street a block and maow—and if I’m asleep,  throw some gravel at  window and that’ll fetch me.” “Agreed, and good as wheat!” “, Huck,  storm’s over, and I’ll go home. It’ll begin to be daylight in a couple of hours.  go back and watch that long, will ?” “I said I would, , and I will. I’ll ha’nt that tavern every night  a year! I’ll sleep all  and I’ll stand watch all night.” “That’s all right. , where  going to sleep?” “In  Rogers’ hayloft. He lets me, and so does  ’s nigger , Uncle Jake. I tote water  Uncle Jake whenever he wants me to, and any time I ask  he gives me a little something to eat if he  spare it. That’s a mighty good nigger, . He likes me, becuz I ’t ever act as if I  above . Sometime I’ve  right down and eat with .   needn’t tell that. A body’s  to do things when he’s awful hungry he wouldn’t want to do as a steady thing.” “Well, if I ’t want  in  daytime, I’ll   sleep. I ’t come bothering around. Any time   something’s up, in  night, just skip right around and maow.” CHAPTER XXIX  first thing  heard on Friday morning  a glad piece of news—Judge Thatcher’s family  come back to town  night before. Both Injun  and  treasure sunk into secondary importance  a moment, and Becky took  chief place in  ’s interest. He   and they  an exhausting good time playing “hispy” and “gully-keeper” with a crowd of their schoolmates.    completed and crowned in a peculiarly satisfactory : Becky teased  mother to appoint  next    long-promised and long-delayed picnic, and  consented.  child’s delight  boundless; and ’s  more moderate.  invitations were sent out before sunset, and straightway  young folks of  village were thrown into a fever of preparation and pleasurable anticipation. ’s excitement enabled  to keep awake until a pretty late hour, and he  good hopes of hearing Huck’s “maow,” and of having  treasure to astonish Becky and  picnickers with, next ;  he  disappointed. No signal came that night. Morning came, eventually, and by  or eleven o’clock a giddy and rollicking company were gathered at Judge Thatcher’s, and everything  ready  a start. It    custom  elderly people to   picnics with their presence.  children were considered safe enough under  wings of a  young ladies of eighteen and a  young gentlemen of twenty-three or thereabouts.  old steam ferry-boat  chartered   occasion; presently   throng filed up  main street laden with provision-baskets.   sick and  to miss  ; Mary remained at home to entertain .  last thing . Thatcher said to Becky, : “’ll   back till late. Perhaps ’d better stay all night with some of  girls that live near  ferry-landing, child.” “Then I’ll stay with Susy Harper, mamma.” “Very well. And mind and behave yourself and ’t be any trouble.” Presently, as they tripped along,  said to Becky: “—I’ll tell  what we’ll do. ’Stead of going to  Harper’s we’ll climb right up  hill and stop at  Widow Douglas’. ’ll have ice-cream!   it most every —dead loads of it. And ’ll be awful glad to have us.” “Oh, that will be !” Then Becky reflected a moment and said: “ what will mamma ?” “’ll  ever know?”  girl turned  idea over in  mind, and said reluctantly: “I reckon it’s wrong——” “ shucks! Your mother ’t know, and so what’s  harm? All  wants is that ’ll be safe; and I   ’d ’a’ said go there if ’d ’a’ thought of it. I know  would!”  Widow Douglas’ splendid hospitality  a tempting bait. It and ’s persuasions presently carried  . So it  decided to  nothing to anybody about  night’s programme. Presently it occurred to  that maybe Huck might come this very night and give  signal.  thought took a deal of  spirit out of  anticipations. Still he could  bear to give up   at Widow Douglas’. And  should he give it up, he reasoned— signal   come  night before, so  should it be any more likely to come tonight?  sure  of  evening outweighed  uncertain treasure; and, -like, he determined to yield to  stronger inclination and  allow himself to think of   of money another time that . Three miles below town  ferryboat stopped at  mouth of a woody hollow and tied up.  crowd swarmed ashore and soon  forest distances and craggy heights echoed  and near with shoutings and laughter. All  different ways of getting  and tired were gone through with, and by-and-by  rovers straggled back to camp fortified with responsible appetites, and then  destruction of  good things began. After  feast there  a refreshing season of rest and chat in  shade of spreading oaks. By-and-by somebody shouted: “’s ready   cave?” Everybody . Bundles of candles were procured, and straightway there  a general scamper up  hill.  mouth of  cave  up  hillside—an opening shaped like a letter A. Its massive oaken door stood unbarred. Within  a small chamber, chilly as an icehouse, and walled by Nature with solid limestone that  dewy with a cold sweat. It  romantic and mysterious to stand here in  deep gloom and look out upon  green valley shining in  .   impressiveness of  situation quickly wore off, and  romping began again.  moment a candle  lighted there  a general rush upon  owner of it; a struggle and a gallant defence followed,   candle  soon knocked down or blown out, and then there  a glad clamor of laughter and a  chase.  all things have an end. By-and-by  procession went filing down  steep descent of  main avenue,  flickering rank of lights dimly revealing  lofty walls of rock almost to their point of junction sixty feet overhead. This main avenue   more than eight or  feet wide. Every  steps other lofty and still narrower crevices branched from it on either hand— McDougal’s cave   a vast labyrinth of crooked aisles that  into each other and out again and  nowhere. It  said that one might wander days and nights together through its intricate tangle of rifts and chasms, and never find  end of  cave; and that he might go down, and down, and still down, into  earth, and it  just  same—labyrinth under labyrinth, and no end to any of them. No  “knew”  cave. That  an impossible thing. Most of  young  knew a portion of it, and it   customary to venture much beyond this known portion.  Sawyer knew as much of  cave as any one.  procession moved along  main avenue some three-quarters of a mile, and then groups and couples began to slip aside into branch avenues,  along  dismal corridors, and take each other by surprise at points where  corridors joined again. Parties were able to elude each other   space of half an hour without going beyond  “known” ground. By-and-by, one group after another came straggling back to  mouth of  cave, panting, hilarious, smeared from head to foot with tallow drippings, daubed with clay, and entirely delighted with  success of  . Then they were astonished to find that they  been taking no note of time and that night  about at hand.  clanging bell  been calling  half an hour. However, this sort of close to  ’s adventures  romantic and therefore satisfactory. When  ferryboat with  wild freight pushed into  stream, nobody cared sixpence   wasted time   captain of  craft. Huck  already upon  watch when  ferryboat’s lights went glinting past  wharf. He heard no noise on board,   young people were as subdued and still as people usually are  are nearly tired to death. He wondered what boat it , and     stop at  wharf—and then he dropped  out of  mind and   attention upon  business.  night  growing cloudy and dark.  o’clock came, and  noise of vehicles ceased, scattered lights began to wink out, all straggling foot-passengers disappeared,  village betook itself to its slumbers and left  small watcher alone with  silence and  ghosts. Eleven o’clock came, and  tavern lights were  out; darkness everywhere, . Huck waited what seemed a weary long time,  nothing happened.  faith  weakening.  there any use?  there really any use?   give it up and turn in? A noise fell upon  ear. He  all attention in an instant.  alley door closed softly. He sprang to  corner of  brick store.  next moment   brushed by , and one seemed to have something under  arm. It must be that ! So they were going to remove  treasure.  call  ? It would be absurd—  would  away with   and never be found again. No, he would stick to their wake and follow them; he would trust to  darkness  security from discovery. So communing with himself, Huck stepped out and glided along behind  , -like, with bare feet, allowing them to keep just  enough ahead  to be invisible. They moved up  river street three blocks, then turned to  left up a crossstreet. They went straight ahead, then, until they came to  path that  up Cardiff Hill; this they took. They passed by  old Welshman’s house, halfway up  hill, without hesitating, and still climbed upward. Good, thought Huck, they will bury it in  old quarry.  they never stopped at  quarry. They passed on, up  summit. They plunged into  narrow path between  tall sumach bushes, and were at once hidden in  gloom. Huck closed up and shortened  distance, ,  they would never be able to  . He trotted along awhile; then slackened  pace, fearing he  gaining  fast; moved on a piece, then stopped altogether; listened; no sound; none, save that he seemed to hear  beating of  own heart.  hooting of an owl came over  hill—ominous sound!  no footsteps. Heavens,  everything lost! He  about to spring with winged feet, when a  cleared  throat  four feet from ! Huck’s heart shot into  throat,  he swallowed it again; and then he stood there shaking as if a dozen agues  taken charge of  at once, and so weak that he thought he must surely fall to  ground. He knew where he . He knew he  within five steps of  stile leading into Widow Douglas’ grounds. Very well, he thought,  them bury it there; it ’t be hard to find.  there  a voice—a very  voice—Injun ’s: “Damn , maybe ’s  company—there’s lights, late as it is.” “I ’t  any.” This  that stranger’s voice— stranger of  haunted house. A deadly chill went to Huck’s heart—this, then,   “revenge” !  thought , to . Then he remembered that  Widow Douglas  been kind to  more than once, and maybe these  were going to murder . He wished he dared venture to warn ;  he knew he didn’t dare—they might come and catch . He thought all this and more in  moment that elapsed between  stranger’s remark and Injun ’s next—which — “Because  bush is in your . —this —  , ’t ?” “. Well, there is company there, I reckon. Better give it up.” “Give it up, and I just leaving this country forever! Give it up and maybe never have another chance. I tell  again, as I’ve told  before, I ’t care   swag—  have it.   husband  rough on me—many times he  rough on me—and mainly he   justice of  peace that jugged me  a vagrant. And that ain’t all. It ain’t a millionth part of it! He  me horsewhipped!—horsewhipped in front of  jail, like a nigger!—with all  town looking on! Horsewhipped!—do  understand? He took advantage of me and died.  I’ll take it out of .” “Oh, ’t kill ! ’t do that!” “Kill?  said anything about killing? I would kill  if he  here;   . When  want to  revenge on a woman  ’t kill —bosh!  go   looks.  slit  nostrils— notch  ears like a !” “By , that’s—” “Keep your opinion to yourself! It will be safest  . I’ll   to  . If  bleeds to death, is that my fault? I’ll  , if  does. My friend, ’ll help me in this thing— my sake—that’s  ’re here—I mightn’t be able alone. If  flinch, I’ll kill . Do  understand that? And if I have to kill , I’ll kill —and then I reckon nobody’ll ever know much about  done this business.” “Well, if it’s  to be done, ’s  at it.  quicker  better—I’m all in a shiver.” “Do it ? And company there? Look here—I’ll  suspicious of , first thing  know. No—we’ll wait till  lights are out—there’s no hurry.” Huck felt that a silence  going to ensue—a thing still more awful than any amount of murderous talk; so he held  breath and stepped gingerly back; planted  foot carefully and firmly, after balancing, one-legged, in a precarious  and almost toppling over, first on one side and then on  other. He took another step back, with  same elaboration and  same risks; then another and another, and—a twig snapped under  foot!  breath stopped and he listened. There  no sound— stillness  perfect.  gratitude  measureless.  he turned in  tracks, between  walls of sumach bushes—turned himself as carefully as if he were a ship—and then stepped quickly  cautiously along. When he emerged at  quarry he felt secure, and so he picked up  nimble heels and flew. Down, down he sped, till he reached  Welshman’s. He banged at  door, and presently  heads of  old  and   stalwart sons were thrust from windows. “What’s   there? ’s banging? What do  want?” “ me in—quick! I’ll tell everything.” “,  are ?” “Huckleberry Finn—quick,  me in!” “Huckleberry Finn, indeed! It ain’t a name to open many doors, I judge!    in, lads, and ’s  what’s  trouble.” “Please ’t ever tell I told ,” were Huck’s first words when he  in. “Please ’t—I’d be killed, sure—  widow’s been good friends to me sometimes, and I want to tell—I will tell if ’ll promise  ’t ever  it  me.” “By George, he   something to tell, or he wouldn’t act so!” exclaimed  old ; “out with it and nobody here’ll ever tell, .” Three minutes later  old  and  sons, well armed, were up  hill, and just entering  sumach path on tiptoe, their weapons in their hands. Huck accompanied them no further. He  behind a great bowlder and fell to listening. There  a lagging, anxious silence, and then all of a sudden there  an explosion of firearms and a . Huck waited  no particulars. He sprang away and sped down  hill as fast as  legs could carry . CHAPTER  AS  earliest suspicion of dawn appeared on Sunday morning, Huck came groping up  hill and rapped gently at  old Welshman’s door.  inmates were asleep,  it  a sleep that   on a hair-trigger, on account of  exciting episode of  night. A call came from a window: “’s there!” Huck’s scared voice answered in a  tone: “Please  me in! It’s only Huck Finn!” “It’s a name that  open this door night or , !—and welcome!” These were strange words to  vagabond ’s ears, and  pleasantest he  ever heard. He could  recollect that  closing word  ever been applied in  case before.  door  quickly unlocked, and he entered. Huck  given a seat and  old  and  brace of tall sons speedily dressed themselves. “, my , I hope ’re good and hungry, because breakfast will be ready as soon as  ’s up, and we’ll have a piping  one, —make yourself easy about that! I and  boys hoped ’d turn up and stop here last night.” “I  awful scared,” said Huck, “and I . I took out when  pistols went off, and I didn’t stop  three mile. I’ve come  becuz I wanted to know about it,  know; and I come before daylight becuz I didn’t want to  across them devils, even if they  dead.” “Well, poor chap,  do look as if ’d  a hard night of it— there’s a  here   when ’ve  your breakfast. No, they ain’t dead, —we are sorry enough  that.   we knew right where to  our hands on them, by your description; so we crept along on tiptoe till we  within fifteen feet of them—dark as a cellar that sumach path —and just then I found I  going to sneeze. It   meanest kind of luck! I tried to keep it back,  no use—’twas bound to come, and it  come! I  in  lead with my pistol raised, and when  sneeze started those scoundrels a-rustling to  out of  path, I sung out, ‘Fire boys!’ and blazed away at  place where  rustling . So   boys.  they were off in a jiffy, those villains, and we after them, down through  woods. I judge we never touched them. They fired a shot apiece as they started,  their bullets whizzed by and didn’t do us any harm. As soon as we lost  sound of their feet we quit chasing, and went down and stirred up  constables. They  a posse together, and went off to guard  river bank, and as soon as it is light  sheriff and a gang are going to beat up  woods. My boys will be with them presently. I wish we  some sort of description of those rascals—’twould help a good deal.   couldn’t  what they were like, in  dark, , I suppose?” “Oh ; I  them downtown and follered them.” “Splendid! Describe them—describe them, my !” “One’s  old deaf and dumb Spaniard that’s  around here once or twice, and t’other’s a mean-looking, ragged—” “That’s enough, , we know  ! Happened on them in  woods back of  widow’s one , and they slunk away. Off with , boys, and tell  sheriff— your breakfast tomorrow morning!”  Welshman’s sons departed at once. As they were leaving  room Huck sprang up and exclaimed: “Oh, please ’t tell anybody it  me that blowed on them! Oh, please!” “All right if   it, Huck,   ought to have  credit of what  .” “Oh no, no! Please ’t tell!” When  young  were gone,  old Welshman said: “They ’t tell—and I ’t.   ’t  want it known?” Huck would  explain, further than to  that he already knew  much about one of those  and would  have   know that he knew anything against    whole world—he would be killed  knowing it, sure.  old  promised secrecy once more, and said: “   come to follow these fellows, ? Were they looking suspicious?” Huck  silent while he framed a duly cautious reply. Then he said: “Well,  , I’m a kind of a hard ,—least everybody says so, and I ’t  nothing agin it—and sometimes I ’t sleep much, on account of thinking about it and sort of trying to strike out a   of doing. That    of it last night. I couldn’t sleep, and so I come along upstreet ’bout midnight, a-turning it all over, and when I  to that old shackly brick store by  Temperance Tavern, I backed up agin  wall to have another think. Well, just then along comes these  chaps slipping along close by me, with something under their arm, and I reckoned they’d stole it. One  a-smoking, and t’other one wanted a light; so they stopped right before me and  cigars  up their faces and I  that   one   deaf and dumb Spaniard, by  white whiskers and  patch on  eye, and t’other one  a rusty, ragged-looking devil.” “Could    rags by  light of  cigars?” This staggered Huck  a moment. Then he said: “Well, I ’t know— somehow it seems as if I .” “Then they went on, and —” “Follered ’em—. That  it. I wanted to  what  up—they sneaked along so. I dogged ’em to  widder’s stile, and stood in  dark and heard  ragged one    widder, and  Spaniard swear he’d spile  looks just as I told  and your —” “What!  deaf and dumb  said all that!” Huck  made another terrible mistake! He  trying  best to keep  old  from getting  faintest hint of   Spaniard might be, and   tongue seemed determined to   into trouble in spite of all he could do. He made several efforts to creep out of  scrape,   old ’s eye  upon  and he made blunder after blunder. Presently  Welshman said: “My , ’t be afraid of me. I wouldn’t hurt a hair of your head  all  world. No—I’d protect —I’d protect . This Spaniard is  deaf and dumb; ’ve  that slip without intending it;  ’t cover that up .  know something about that Spaniard that  want to keep dark.  trust me—tell me what it is, and trust me—I ’t betray .” Huck looked into  old ’s honest eyes a moment, then bent over and whispered in  ear: “’Tain’t a Spaniard—it’s Injun !”  Welshman almost jumped out of  chair. In a moment he said: “It’s all plain enough, . When  talked about notching ears and slitting noses I judged that that  your own embellishment, because white  ’t take that sort of revenge.  an Injun! That’s a different matter altogether.” During breakfast  talk went on, and in  course of it  old  said that  last thing which he and  sons  done, before going to ,  to  a lantern and examine  stile and its vicinity  marks of blood. They found none,  captured a bulky bundle of— “Of what?” If  words  been lightning they could  have leaped with a more stunning suddenness from Huck’s blanched lips.  eyes were staring wide, , and  breath suspended—waiting   answer.  Welshman started—stared in return—three seconds—five seconds——then replied: “Of burglar’s tools. , what’s  matter with ?” Huck sank back, panting gently,  deeply, unutterably grateful.  Welshman eyed  gravely, curiously—and presently said: “, burglar’s tools. That appears to relieve  a good deal.  what  give  that turn? What were  expecting we’d found?” Huck  in a close place— inquiring eye  upon —he would have given anything  material  a plausible answer—nothing suggested itself— inquiring eye  boring deeper and deeper—a senseless reply offered—there  no time to weigh it, so at a venture he uttered it—feebly: “Sunday-school books, maybe.” Poor Huck   distressed to smile,   old  laughed loud and joyously, shook up  details of  anatomy from head to foot, and ended by saying that such a laugh  money in a-’s pocket, because it  down  doctor’s bill like everything. Then he added: “Poor old chap, ’re white and jaded— ain’t well a —no wonder ’re a little flighty and off your balance.  ’ll come out of it. Rest and sleep will fetch  out all right, I hope.” Huck  irritated to think he  been such a goose and betrayed such a suspicious excitement,  he  dropped  idea that  parcel brought from  tavern   treasure, as soon as he  heard  talk at  widow’s stile. He  only thought it    treasure, however—he   known that it wasn’t—and so  suggestion of a captured bundle   much   self-possession.  on  whole he felt glad  little episode  happened,   he knew beyond all question that that bundle    bundle, and so  mind  at rest and exceedingly comfortable. In fact, everything seemed to be drifting just in  right direction, ;  treasure must be still in No. 2,   would be captured and jailed that , and he and  could seize  gold that night without any trouble or any fear of interruption. Just as breakfast  completed there  a knock at  door. Huck jumped  a hiding-place,  he  no mind to be connected even remotely with  late event.  Welshman admitted several ladies and gentlemen, among them  Widow Douglas, and noticed that groups of citizens were climbing up  hill—to stare at  stile. So  news  spread.  Welshman  to tell  story of  night to  visitors.  widow’s gratitude   preservation  outspoken. “’t  a word about it, madam. There’s another that ’re more beholden to than  are to me and my boys, maybe,  he ’t allow me to tell  name. We wouldn’t have been there   .” Of course this excited a curiosity so vast that it almost belittled  main matter—  Welshman allowed it to eat into  vitals of  visitors, and through them be transmitted to  whole town,  he refused to part with  secret. When all else  been learned,  widow said: “I went to sleep reading in  and slept straight through all that noise.  didn’t  come and wake me?” “We judged it warn’t worth while. Those fellows warn’t likely to come again—they hadn’t any tools left to work with, and what   use of waking  up and scaring  to death? My three negro  stood guard at your house all  rest of  night. They’ve just come back.” More visitors came, and  story  to be told and retold  a couple of hours more. There  no Sabbath-school during -school vacation,  everybody  early at church.  stirring event  well canvassed. News came that  a sign of   villains  been  discovered. When  sermon  finished, Judge Thatcher’s wife dropped alongside of . Harper as  moved down  aisle with  crowd and said: “Is my Becky going to sleep all ? I just expected  would be tired to death.” “Your Becky?” “,” with a startled look—“didn’t  stay with  last night?” “, no.” . Thatcher turned pale, and sank into a , just as Aunt Polly, talking briskly with a friend, passed by. Aunt Polly said: “Goodmorning, . Thatcher. Goodmorning, . Harper. I’ve  a  that’s turned up missing. I reckon my  stayed at your house last night—one of . And  he’s afraid to come to church. I’ve  to settle with .” . Thatcher shook  head feebly and turned paler than ever. “He didn’t stay with us,” said . Harper, beginning to look uneasy. A marked anxiety came into Aunt Polly’s face. “ Harper, have  seen my  this morning?” “No’m.” “When     last?”  tried to remember,    sure he could .  people  stopped moving out of church. Whispers passed along, and a boding uneasiness took possession of every countenance. Children were anxiously questioned, and young teachers. They all said they   noticed whether  and Becky were on board  ferryboat on  homeward trip; it  dark; no one thought of inquiring if any one  missing. One young  finally blurted out  fear that they were still in  cave! . Thatcher swooned away. Aunt Polly fell to crying and wringing  hands.  alarm swept from  to , from group to group, from street to street, and within five minutes  bells were wildly clanging and  whole town  up!  Cardiff Hill episode sank into instant insignificance,  burglars were forgotten, horses were saddled, skiffs were manned,  ferryboat ordered out, and before  horror  half an hour old,  hundred  were pouring down highroad and river toward  cave. All  long afternoon  village seemed empty and dead. Many women visited Aunt Polly and . Thatcher and tried to comfort them. They cried with them, , and that  still better than words. All  tedious night  town waited  news;  when  morning dawned at last, all  word that came , “Send more candles—and send food.” . Thatcher  almost crazed; and Aunt Polly, also. Judge Thatcher sent messages of hope and encouragement from  cave,  they conveyed no real cheer.  old Welshman came home toward daylight, spattered with candle-grease, smeared with clay, and almost worn out. He found Huck still in   that  been provided  , and delirious with fever.  physicians were all at  cave, so  Widow Douglas came and took charge of  patient.  said  would do  best by , because, whether he  good, , or indifferent, he   Lord’s, and nothing that   Lord’s  a thing to be neglected.  Welshman said Huck  good spots in , and  widow said: “  depend on it. That’s  Lord’s mark. He ’t leave it off. He never does. Puts it somewhere on every creature that comes from  hands.” Early in  forenoon parties of jaded  began to straggle into  village,   strongest of  citizens continued searching. All  news that could be gained  that remotenesses of  cavern were being ransacked that  never been visited before; that every corner and crevice  going to be thoroughly searched; that wherever one wandered through  maze of passages, lights were to be seen flitting hither and thither in  distance, and shoutings and pistol-shots sent their hollow reverberations to  ear down  sombre aisles. In one place,  from  section usually traversed by tourists,  names “BECKY & ”  been found traced upon  rocky wall with candle-smoke, and near at hand a grease-soiled  of ribbon. . Thatcher recognized  ribbon and cried over it.  said it   last relic  should ever have of  child; and that no other memorial of  could ever be so precious, because this one parted latest from  living body before  awful death came. Some said that  and then, in  cave, a -away speck of light would glimmer, and then a glorious shout would burst forth and a score of  go trooping down  echoing aisle—and then a sickening disappointment always followed;  children were  there; it  only a searcher’s light. Three dreadful days and nights dragged their tedious hours along, and  village sank into a hopeless stupor. No one  heart  anything.  accidental discovery, just made, that  proprietor of  Temperance Tavern kept liquor on  premises, scarcely fluttered  public pulse, tremendous as  fact . In a lucid interval, Huck feebly  up to  subject of taverns, and finally asked—dimly dreading  worst—if anything  been discovered at  Temperance Tavern since he  been ill. “,” said  widow. Huck started up in , wildeyed: “What? What  it?” “Liquor!—and  place  been shut up.  down, child—what a turn   give me!” “Only tell me just one thing—only just one—please!  it  Sawyer that found it?”  widow burst into tears. “Hush, hush, child, hush! I’ve told  before,  must  talk.  are very, very sick!” Then nothing  liquor  been found; there would have been a great powwow if it  been  gold. So  treasure  gone forever—gone forever!  what could  be crying about? Curious that  should . These thoughts worked their   through Huck’s mind, and under  weariness they gave  he fell asleep.  widow said to herself: “There—he’s asleep, poor wreck.  Sawyer find it! Pity  somebody could find  Sawyer! Ah, there ain’t many left, , that’s  hope enough, or strength enough, either, to go on searching.” CHAPTER XXXI  to return to  and Becky’s share in  picnic. They tripped along  murky aisles with  rest of  company, visiting  familiar wonders of  cave—wonders dubbed with rather over-descriptive names, such as “ Drawing-Room,” “ Cathedral,” “Aladdin’s Palace,” and so on. Presently  hide-and-seek frolicking began, and  and Becky engaged in it with zeal until  exertion began to grow a trifle wearisome; then they wandered down a sinuous avenue holding their candles aloft and reading  tangled webwork of names, dates, postoffice addresses, and mottoes with which  rocky walls  been frescoed (in candle-smoke). Still drifting along and talking, they scarcely noticed that they were  in a part of  cave whose walls were  frescoed. They smoked their own names under an overhanging shelf and moved on. Presently they came to a place where a little stream of water, trickling over a ledge and carrying a limestone sediment with it, , in  slow-dragging ages, formed a laced and ruffled Niagara in gleaming and imperishable stone.  squeezed  small body behind it in order to illuminate it  Becky’s gratification. He found that it curtained a sort of steep natural stairway which  enclosed between narrow walls, and at once  ambition to be a discoverer seized . Becky responded to  call, and they made a smoke-mark  future guidance, and started upon their quest. They wound this  and that,  down into  secret depths of  cave, made another mark, and branched off in search of novelties to tell  upper world about. In one place they found a spacious cavern, from whose ceiling depended a multitude of shining stalactites of  length and circumference of a ’s ; they walked all about it, wondering and admiring, and presently left it by one of  numerous passages that opened into it. This shortly brought them to a bewitching spring, whose basin  incrusted with a frostwork of glittering crystals; it  in  midst of a cavern whose walls were supported by many fantastic pillars which  been formed by  joining of great stalactites and stalagmites together,  result of  ceaseless water-drip of centuries. Under  roof vast knots of bats  packed themselves together, thousands in a bunch;  lights disturbed  creatures and they came flocking down by hundreds, squeaking and darting furiously at  candles.  knew their ways and  danger of this sort of conduct. He seized Becky’s hand and hurried  into  first corridor that offered; and none  soon,  a  struck Becky’s light out with its wing while   passing out of  cavern.  bats chased  children a good distance;   fugitives plunged into every  passage that offered, and at last   of  perilous things.  found a subterranean lake, shortly, which stretched its  length away until its shape  lost in  shadows. He wanted to explore its borders,  concluded that it would be best to  down and rest awhile, first. ,   first time,  deep stillness of  place laid a clammy hand upon  spirits of  children. Becky said: “, I didn’t notice,  it seems ever so long since I heard any of  others.” “Come to think, Becky, we are away down below them—and I ’t know   away north, or south, or east, or whichever it is. We couldn’t hear them here.” Becky grew apprehensive. “I wonder  long we’ve been down here, ? We better start back.” “, I reckon we better. P’raps we better.” “  find  , ? It’s all a mixed-up crookedness to me.” “I reckon I could find it— then  bats. If they  our candles out it will be an awful . ’s  some other , so as  to go through there.” “Well.  I hope we ’t  lost. It would be so awful!” and  girl shuddered at  thought of  dreadful possibilities. They started through a corridor, and traversed it in silence a long , glancing at each  opening, to  if there  anything familiar about  look of it;  they were all strange. Every time  made an examination, Becky would watch  face  an encouraging sign, and he would  cheerily: “Oh, it’s all right. This ain’t  one,  we’ll come to it right away!”  he felt less and less hopeful with each failure, and presently began to turn off into diverging avenues at sheer random, in desperate hope of finding  one that  wanted. He still said it  “all right,”  there  such a leaden dread at  heart that  words  lost their ring and sounded just as if he  said, “All is lost!” Becky clung to  side in an anguish of fear, and tried hard to keep back  tears,  they would come. At last  said: “Oh, , never mind  bats, ’s go back that ! We seem to  worse and worse off all  time.” “Listen!” said he. Profound silence; silence so deep that even their breathings were conspicuous in  hush.  shouted.  call went echoing down  empty aisles and died out in  distance in a faint sound that resembled a ripple of mocking laughter. “Oh, ’t do it again, , it is  horrid,” said Becky. “It is horrid,  I better, Becky; they might hear us,  know,” and he shouted again.  “might”  even a chillier horror than  ghostly laughter, it so confessed a perishing hope.  children stood still and listened;  there  no result.  turned upon  back track at once, and hurried  steps. It   a little while before a certain indecision in  manner revealed another fearful fact to Becky—he could  find   back! “Oh, ,  didn’t make any marks!” “Becky, I  such a fool! Such a fool! I never thought we might want to come back! No—I ’t find  . It’s all mixed up.” “, , we’re lost! we’re lost! We never   out of this awful place! Oh,   we ever leave  others!”  sank to  ground and burst into such a frenzy of crying that   appalled with  idea that  might , or lose  reason. He  down by  and   arms around ;  buried  face in  bosom,  clung to ,  poured out  terrors,  unavailing regrets, and   echoes turned them all to jeering laughter.  begged  to pluck up hope again, and  said  could . He fell to blaming and abusing himself  getting  into this miserable situation; this  a better effect.  said  would  to hope again,  would  up and follow wherever he might lead if only he would  talk like that any more.  he  no more to blame than ,  said. So they moved on again—aimlessly—simply at random—all they could do  to move, keep moving.  a little while, hope made a show of reviving— with any reason to back it,  only because it is its nature to revive when  spring   been taken out of it by age and familiarity with failure. By-and-by  took Becky’s candle and blew it out. This economy meant so much! Words were  needed. Becky understood, and  hope died again.  knew that   a whole candle and three or four pieces in  pockets— he must economize. By-and-by, fatigue began to assert its claims;  children tried to  attention,  it  dreadful to think of sitting down when time  grown to be so precious, moving, in some direction, in any direction,  at least progress and might bear fruit;  to  down  to invite death and shorten its pursuit. At last Becky’s frail limbs refused to carry  farther.   down.  rested with , and they talked of home, and  friends there, and  comfortable beds and, above all,  light! Becky cried, and  tried to think of some  of comforting ,  all  encouragements were grown thread-bare with use, and sounded like sarcasms. Fatigue bore so heavily upon Becky that  drowsed off to sleep.   grateful. He  looking into  drawn face and  it grow smooth and natural under  influence of pleasant dreams; and by-and-by a smile dawned and rested there.  peaceful face reflected somewhat of peace and healing into  own spirit, and  thoughts wandered away to bygone times and dreamy memories. While he  deep in  musings, Becky woke up with a breezy little laugh— it  stricken dead upon  lips, and a groan followed it. “Oh,  could I sleep! I wish I never, never  waked! No! No, I ’t, ! ’t look so! I ’t  it again.” “I’m glad ’ve slept, Becky; ’ll feel rested, , and we’ll find   out.” “We  , ;  I’ve seen such a beautiful country in my dream. I reckon we are going there.” “Maybe , maybe . Cheer up, Becky, and ’s go on trying.” They rose up and wandered along, hand in hand and hopeless. They tried to estimate  long they  been in  cave,  all they knew  that it seemed days and weeks, and  it  plain that this could  be,  their candles were  gone . A long time after this—they could  tell  long— said they must go softly and listen  dripping water—they must find a spring. They found one presently, and  said it  time to rest again. Both were cruelly tired,  Becky said  thought  could go a little farther.   surprised to hear  dissent.  could  understand it. They  down, and  fastened  candle to  wall in front of them with some clay. Thought  soon busy; nothing  said  some time. Then Becky broke  silence: “, I am so hungry!”  took something out of  pocket. “Do  remember this?” said he. Becky almost smiled. “It’s our wedding-cake, .” “—I wish it  as  as a barrel,  it’s all we’ve .” “I saved it from  picnic  us to dream on, ,   grownup people do with wedding-cake— it’ll be our—”  dropped  sentence where it .  divided  cake and Becky ate with good appetite, while  nibbled at  moiety. There  abundance of cold water to finish  feast with. By-and-by Becky suggested that they move on again.   silent a moment. Then he said: “Becky,   bear it if I tell  something?” Becky’s face paled,   thought  could. “Well, then, Becky, we must stay here, where there’s water to drink. That little piece is our last candle!” Becky gave loose to tears and wailings.   what he could to comfort ,  with little effect. At length Becky said: “!” “Well, Becky?” “They’ll miss us and hunt  us!” “, they will! Certainly they will!” “Maybe they’re hunting  us , .” “, I reckon maybe they are. I hope they are.” “When would they miss us, ?” “When they  back to  boat, I reckon.” “, it might be dark then—would they notice we hadn’t come?” “I ’t know.  anyway, your mother would miss  as soon as they  home.” A frightened look in Becky’s face brought  to  senses and he  that he  made a blunder. Becky   to have gone home that night!  children became silent and thoughtful. In a moment a  burst of grief from Becky showed  that  thing in  mind  struck hers also—that  Sabbath morning might be half spent before . Thatcher discovered that Becky   at . Harper’s.  children fastened their eyes upon their  of candle and watched it melt slowly and pitilessly away;   half inch of wick stand alone at last;   feeble flame rise and fall, climb  thin column of smoke, linger at its  a moment, and then— horror of utter darkness reigned!  long afterward it  that Becky came to a slow consciousness that   crying in ’s arms, neither could tell. All that they knew , that after what seemed a mighty stretch of time, both awoke out of a dead stupor of sleep and resumed their miseries once more.  said it might be Sunday, —maybe Monday. He tried to  Becky to talk,   sorrows were  oppressive, all  hopes were gone.  said that they must have been missed long ago, and no doubt  search  going on. He would shout and maybe some one would come. He tried it;  in  darkness  distant echoes sounded so hideously that he tried it no more.  hours wasted away, and hunger came to torment  captives again. A portion of ’s half of  cake  left; they divided and ate it.  they seemed hungrier than before.  poor morsel of food only whetted desire. By-and-by  said: “SH!   hear that?” Both held their breath and listened. There  a sound like  faintest, -off shout. Instantly  answered it, and leading Becky by  hand, started groping down  corridor in its direction. Presently he listened again; again  sound  heard, and apparently a little nearer. “It’s them!” said ; “they’re coming! Come along, Becky—we’re all right !”   of  prisoners  almost overwhelming. Their speed  slow, however, because pitfalls were somewhat common, and  to be guarded against. They shortly came to one and  to stop. It might be three feet deep, it might be a hundred—there  no passing it at any rate.   down on  breast and reached as  down as he could. No bottom. They must stay there and wait until  searchers came. They listened; evidently  distant shoutings were growing more distant! a moment or  more and they  gone altogether.  heart-sinking misery of it!  whooped until he  hoarse,  it  of no use. He talked hopefully to Becky;  an age of anxious waiting passed and no sounds came again.  children groped their  back to  spring.  weary time dragged on; they slept again, and awoke famished and -stricken.  believed it must be Tuesday by this time.  an idea struck . There were some side passages near at hand. It would be better to explore some of these than bear  weight of  heavy time in idleness. He took a kite-line from  pocket, tied it to a projection, and he and Becky started,  in  lead, unwinding  line as he groped along. At  end of twenty steps  corridor ended in a “jumping-off place.”   down on  knees and felt below, and then as  around  corner as he could reach with  hands conveniently; he made an effort to stretch  a little farther to  right, and at that moment,  twenty yards away, a human hand, holding a candle, appeared from behind a rock!  lifted up a glorious shout, and instantly that hand  followed by  body it belonged to—Injun ’s!   paralyzed; he could  move. He  vastly gratified  next moment, to   “Spaniard” take to  heels and  himself out of sight.  wondered that    recognized  voice and come over and killed   testifying in court.   echoes must have disguised  voice. Without doubt, that  it, he reasoned. ’s fright weakened every muscle in  body. He said to himself that if he  strength enough to  back to  spring he would stay there, and nothing should tempt  to   risk of meeting Injun  again. He  careful to keep from Becky what it  he  seen. He told  he  only shouted “ luck.”  hunger and wretchedness rise superior to fears in  long . Another tedious wait at  spring and another long sleep brought changes.  children awoke tortured with a raging hunger.  believed that it must be Wednesday or Thursday or even Friday or Saturday, , and that  search  been given over. He proposed to explore another passage. He felt willing to risk Injun  and all other terrors.  Becky  very weak.   sunk into a dreary apathy and would  be roused.  said  would wait, , where  , and —it would  be long.  told  to go with  kite-line and explore if he chose;   implored  to come back every little while and speak to ; and  made  promise that when  awful time came, he would stay by  and hold  hand until all  over.  kissed , with a choking sensation in  throat, and made a show of being confident of finding  searchers or an escape from  cave; then he took  kite-line in  hand and went groping down one of  passages on  hands and knees, distressed with hunger and sick with bodings of coming doom. CHAPTER XXXII TUESDAY afternoon came, and waned to  twilight.  village of St. Petersburg still mourned.  lost children   been found. Public prayers  been offered up  them, and many and many a private prayer that   petitioner’s whole heart in it;  still no good news came from  cave.  majority of  searchers  given up  quest and gone back to their daily avocations, saying that it  plain  children could never be found. . Thatcher  very ill, and a great part of  time delirious. People said it  heartbreaking to hear  call  child, and raise  head and listen a whole minute at a time, then  it wearily down again with a moan. Aunt Polly  drooped into a settled melancholy, and  gray hair  grown almost white.  village went to its rest on Tuesday night,  and forlorn. Away in  middle of  night a wild peal burst from  village bells, and in a moment  streets were swarming with frantic half-clad people,  shouted, “Turn out! turn out! they’re found! they’re found!”  pans and horns were added to  ,  population massed itself and moved toward  river,   children coming in an open carriage drawn by shouting citizens, thronged around it, joined its homeward march, and swept magnificently up  main street roaring huzzah after huzzah!  village  illuminated; nobody went to  again; it   greatest night  little town  ever seen. During  first half-hour a procession of villagers filed through Judge Thatcher’s house, seized  saved ones and kissed them, squeezed . Thatcher’s hand, tried to speak  couldn’t—and drifted out raining tears all over  place. Aunt Polly’s happiness  complete, and . Thatcher’s nearly so. It would be complete, however, as soon as  messenger dispatched with  great news to  cave should   word to  husband.   upon a sofa with an eager auditory about  and told  history of  wonderful adventure, putting in many striking additions to adorn it withal; and closed with a description of  he left Becky and went on an exploring expedition;  he followed  avenues as  as  kite-line would reach;  he followed a third to  fullest stretch of  kite-line, and  about to turn back when he glimpsed a -off speck that looked like daylight; dropped  line and groped toward it, pushed  head and shoulders through a small hole, and   broad Mississippi rolling by! And if it  only happened to be night he would  have seen that speck of daylight and would  have explored that passage any more! He told  he went back  Becky and broke  good news and  told   to fret  with such stuff,    tired, and knew   going to , and wanted to. He described  he labored with  and convinced ; and   almost died   when   groped to where  actually   blue speck of daylight;  he pushed   out at  hole and then helped  out;  they  there and cried  gladness;  some  came along in a skiff and  hailed them and told them their situation and their famished condition;    didn’t believe  wild tale at first, “because,” said they, “ are five miles down  river below  valley  cave is in”—then took them aboard, rowed to a house, gave them supper, made them rest till  or three hours after dark and then brought them home. Before -dawn, Judge Thatcher and  handful of searchers with  were tracked out, in  cave, by  twine clews they  strung behind them, and informed of  great news. Three days and nights of toil and hunger in  cave were  to be shaken off at once, as  and Becky soon discovered. They were bedridden all of Wednesday and Thursday, and seemed to grow more and more tired and worn, all  time.   about, a little, on Thursday,  downtown Friday, and nearly as whole as ever Saturday;  Becky   leave  room until Sunday, and then  looked as if   passed through a wasting illness.  learned of Huck’s sickness and went to   on Friday,  could  be admitted to  bedroom; neither could he on Saturday or Sunday. He  admitted daily after that,   warned to keep still about  adventure and introduce no exciting topic.  Widow Douglas stayed by to  that he obeyed. At home  learned of  Cardiff Hill event; also that  “ragged ’s” body  eventually been found in  river near  ferry-landing; he  been drowned while trying to escape, perhaps. About a fortnight after ’s rescue from  cave, he started off to visit Huck,   grown plenty strong enough, , to hear exciting talk, and   some that would interest , he thought. Judge Thatcher’s house  on ’s , and he stopped to  Becky.  Judge and some friends   to talking, and some one asked  ironically if he wouldn’t like to go to  cave again.  said he thought he wouldn’t mind it.  Judge said: “Well, there are others just like , , I’ve   least doubt.  we have taken care of that. Nobody will  lost in that cave any more.” “?” “Because I  its  door sheathed with boiler iron  weeks ago, and triple-locked—and I’ve   keys.”  turned as white as a sheet. “What’s  matter, ! Here, , somebody! Fetch a glass of water!”  water  brought and thrown into ’s face. “Ah,  ’re all right. What   matter with , ?” “Oh, Judge, Injun ’s in  cave!” CHAPTER XXXIII WITHIN a  minutes  news  spread, and a dozen skiff-loads of  were on their  to McDougal’s cave, and  ferryboat, well filled with passengers, soon followed.  Sawyer  in  skiff that bore Judge Thatcher. When  cave door  unlocked, a sorrowful sight presented itself in   twilight of  place. Injun   stretched upon  ground, dead, with  face close to  crack of  door, as if  longing eyes  been fixed, to  latest moment, upon  light and  cheer of  free world outside.   touched,  he knew by  own experience  this wretch  suffered.  pity  moved,  nevertheless he felt an abounding sense of relief and security, , which revealed to  in a degree which he   fully appreciated before  vast a weight of dread  been lying upon  since   he lifted  voice against this bloody-minded outcast. Injun ’s bowie-knife  close by, its blade broken in .  great foundation-beam of  door  been chipped and hacked through, with tedious labor; useless labor, , it ,   native rock formed a sill outside it, and upon that stubborn material  knife  wrought no effect;  only damage done  to  knife itself.  if there  been no stony obstruction there  labor would have been useless still,  if  beam  been wholly  away Injun  could  have squeezed  body under  door, and he knew it. So he  only hacked that place in order to be doing something—in order to pass  weary time—in order to employ  tortured faculties. Ordinarily one could find half a dozen bits of candle stuck around in  crevices of this vestibule, left there by tourists;  there were none .  prisoner  searched them out and eaten them. He  also contrived to catch a  bats, and these, also, he  eaten, leaving only their claws.  poor unfortunate  starved to death. In one place, near at hand, a stalagmite  been slowly growing up from  ground  ages, builded by  water-drip from a stalactite overhead.  captive  broken off  stalagmite, and upon  stump  placed a stone, wherein he  scooped a shallow hollow to catch  precious drop that fell once in every three minutes with  dreary regularity of a clock-tick—a dessertspoonful once in four and twenty hours. That drop  falling when  Pyramids were ; when Troy fell; when  foundations of Rome were laid; when Christ  crucified; when  Conqueror created  British empire; when Columbus sailed; when  massacre at Lexington  “news.” It is falling ; it will still be falling when all these things shall have sunk down  afternoon of history, and  twilight of tradition, and been swallowed up in  thick night of oblivion.  everything a purpose and a mission?  this drop fall patiently during five thousand years to be ready  this flitting human insect’s need? and  it another important object to accomplish  thousand years to come? No matter. It is many and many a year since  hapless half-breed scooped out  stone to catch  priceless drops,  to this   tourist stares longest at that pathetic stone and that slow-dropping water when he comes to   wonders of McDougal’s cave. Injun ’s  stands first in  list of  cavern’s marvels; even “Aladdin’s Palace” cannot rival it. Injun   buried near  mouth of  cave; and people flocked there in boats and wagons from  towns and from all  farms and hamlets  seven miles around; they brought their children, and all sorts of provisions, and confessed that they   almost as satisfactory a time at  funeral as they could have  at  hanging. This funeral stopped  further growth of one thing— petition to  governor  Injun ’s pardon.  petition  been largely signed; many tearful and eloquent meetings  been held, and a committee of sappy women been appointed to go in deep mourning and wail around  governor, and implore  to be a merciful ass and trample  duty under foot. Injun   believed to have killed five citizens of  village,  what of that? If he  been Satan himself there would have been plenty of weaklings ready to scribble their names to a pardon-petition, and drip a tear on it from their permanently impaired and leaky water-works.  morning after  funeral  took Huck to a private place to have an important talk. Huck  learned all about ’s adventure from  Welshman and  Widow Douglas, by this time,   said he reckoned there  one thing they   told ; that thing  what he wanted to talk about . Huck’s face saddened. He said: “I know what it is.   into No. 2 and never found anything  whiskey. Nobody told me it  ;  I just knowed it must ’a’  , soon as I heard ’bout that whiskey business; and I knowed  hadn’t   money becuz ’d ’a’  at me some  or other and told me even if    to everybody else. , something’s always told me we’d never  holt of that swag.” “, Huck, I never told on that tavern-keeper.  know  tavern  all right  Saturday I went to  picnic. ’t  remember   to watch there that night?” “Oh ! , it seems ’bout a year ago. It  that very night that I follered Injun  to  widder’s.” “ followed ?” “—  keep . I reckon Injun ’s left friends behind , and I ’t want ’em souring on me and doing me mean tricks. If it hadn’t   me he’d be down in Texas , all right.” Then Huck told  entire adventure in confidence to ,   only heard of  Welshman’s part of it before. “Well,” said Huck, presently, coming back to  main question, “whoever nipped  whiskey in No. 2, nipped  money, , I reckon—anyways it’s a goner  us, .” “Huck, that money wasn’t ever in No. 2!” “What!” Huck searched  comrade’s face keenly. “, have   on  track of that money again?” “Huck, it’s in  cave!” Huck’s eyes blazed. “ it again, .” “ money’s in  cave!” “—honest injun, —is it , or earnest?” “Earnest, Huck—just as earnest as ever I  in my life. Will  go in there with me and help  it out?” “I  I will! I will if it’s where we  blaze our  to it and   lost.” “Huck, we  do that without  least little  of trouble in  world.” “Good as wheat! What makes  think  money’s—” “Huck,  just wait till we  in there. If we ’t find it I’ll agree to give  my drum and every thing I’ve  in  world. I will, by jings.” “All right—it’s a whiz. When do  ?” “Right , if   it. Are  strong enough?” “Is it  in  cave? I  on my pins a little, three or four days, ,  I ’t walk more’n a mile, —least I ’t think I could.” “It’s about five mile into there   anybody  me would go, Huck,  there’s a mighty short  that they ’t anybody  me know about. Huck, I’ll take  right to it in a skiff. I’ll float  skiff down there, and I’ll pull it back again all by myself.  needn’t ever turn your hand over.” “Less start right off, .” “All right. We want some bread and meat, and our pipes, and a little  or , and  or three kite-strings, and some of these -fangled things they call lucifer matches. I tell , many’s  time I wished I  some when I  in there before.” A trifle after noon  boys borrowed a small skiff from a citizen   absent, and  under  at once. When they were several miles below “Cave Hollow,”  said: “   this bluff here looks all alike all   down from  cave hollow—no houses, no wood-yards, bushes all alike.  do   that white place up yonder where there’s been a landslide? Well, that’s one of my marks. We’ll  ashore, .” They landed. “, Huck, where we’re a-standing  could touch that hole I  out of with a fishing-pole.  if   find it.” Huck searched all  place about, and found nothing.  proudly marched into a thick clump of sumach bushes and said: “Here  are! Look at it, Huck; it’s  snuggest hole in this country.  just keep  about it. All along I’ve been wanting to be a robber,  I knew I’d  to have a thing like this, and where to  across it   bother. We’ve  it , and we’ll keep it quiet, only we’ll   Harper and  Rogers in—because of course there’s  to be a Gang, or else there wouldn’t be any style about it.  Sawyer’s Gang—it sounds splendid, ’t it, Huck?” “Well, it just does, . And ’ll we ?” “Oh, most anybody. Waylay people—that’s mostly  .” “And kill them?” “No,  always. Hive them in  cave till they raise a ransom.” “What’s a ransom?” “Money.  make them raise all they , off’n their friends; and after ’ve kept them a year, if it ain’t raised then  kill them. That’s  general . Only  ’t kill  women.  shut up  women,   ’t kill them. They’re always beautiful and rich, and awfully scared.  take their watches and things,   always take your  off and talk polite. They ain’t anybody as polite as robbers—’ll  that in any book. Well,  women  to loving , and after they’ve been in  cave a week or  weeks they stop crying and after that  couldn’t  them to leave. If  drove them out they’d turn right around and come back. It’s so in all  books.” “, it’s real bully, . I believe it’s better’n to be a pirate.” “, it’s better in some ways, because it’s close to home and circuses and all that.” By this time everything  ready and  boys entered  hole,  in  lead. They toiled their  to  farther end of  tunnel, then made their spliced kite-strings fast and moved on. A  steps brought them to  spring, and  felt a shudder quiver all through . He showed Huck  fragment of candle-wick perched on a lump of clay against  wall, and described  he and Becky  watched  flame struggle and expire.  boys began to quiet down to whispers, ,   stillness and gloom of  place oppressed their spirits. They went on, and presently entered and followed ’s other corridor until they reached  “jumping-off place.”  candles revealed  fact that it   really a precipice,  only a steep clay hill twenty or thirty feet high.  whispered: “ I’ll show  something, Huck.” He held  candle aloft and said: “Look as  around  corner as  . Do   that? There—on   rock over yonder—done with candle-smoke.” “, it’s a cross!” “ where’s your Number ? ‘under  cross,’ ? Right yonder’s where I  Injun  poke up  candle, Huck!” Huck stared at  mystic sign awhile, and then said with a shaky voice: “, less  out of here!” “What! and leave  treasure?” “—leave it. Injun ’s ghost is round about there, certain.” “No it ain’t, Huck, no it ain’t. It would ha’nt  place where he died—away out at  mouth of  cave—five mile from here.” “No, , it wouldn’t. It would hang round  money. I know  ways of ghosts, and so do .”  began to fear that Huck  right. -givings gathered in  mind.  presently an idea occurred to — “Lookyhere, Huck, what fools we’re making of ourselves! Injun ’s ghost ain’t a going to come around where there’s a cross!”  point  well taken. It  its effect. “, I didn’t think of that.  that’s so. It’s luck  us, that cross is. I reckon we’ll climb down there and have a hunt  that .”  went first, cutting rude steps in  clay hill as he descended. Huck followed. Four avenues opened out of  small cavern which  great rock stood in.  boys examined three of them with no result. They found a small recess in  one nearest  base of  rock, with a pallet of blankets spread down in it; also an old suspender, some bacon rind, and  well-gnawed bones of  or three fowls.  there  no moneybox.  lads searched and researched this place,  in vain.  said: “He said under  cross. Well, this comes nearest to being under  cross. It ’t be under  rock itself, because that sets solid on  ground.” They searched everywhere once more, and then  down discouraged. Huck could suggest nothing. By-and-by  said: “Lookyhere, Huck, there’s footprints and some candle-grease on  clay about one side of this rock,   on  other sides. , what’s that ? I    money is under  rock. I’m going to  in  clay.” “That ain’t no  notion, !” said Huck with animation. ’s “real Barlow”  out at once, and he    four inches before he struck wood. “, Huck!— hear that?” Huck began to  and scratch . Some boards were soon uncovered and removed. They  concealed a natural chasm which  under  rock.   into this and held  candle as  under  rock as he could,  said he could   to  end of  rift. He proposed to explore. He stooped and passed under;  narrow  descended gradually. He followed its winding course, first to  right, then to  left, Huck at  heels.  turned a short curve, by-and-by, and exclaimed: “My goodness, Huck, lookyhere!” It   treasure-, sure enough, occupying a snug little cavern, along with an empty powder-, a couple of guns in leather cases,  or three pairs of old moccasins, a leather belt, and some other rubbish well soaked with  water-drip. “ it at last!” said Huck, ploughing among  tarnished coins with  hand. “My,  we’re rich, !” “Huck, I always reckoned we’d  it. It’s just  good to believe,  we have  it, sure! —’s  fool around here. ’s snake it out. Lemme  if I  lift  .” It weighed about fifty pounds.  could lift it, after an awkward fashion,  could  carry it conveniently. “I thought so,” he said; “They carried it like it  heavy, that  at  ha’nted house. I noticed that. I reckon I  right to think of fetching  little bags along.”  money  soon in  bags and  boys took it up to  cross rock. “ less fetch  guns and things,” said Huck. “No, Huck—leave them there. They’re just  tricks to have when we go to robbing. We’ll keep them there all  time, and we’ll hold our orgies there, . It’s an awful snug place  orgies.” “What orgies?” “I dono.  robbers always have orgies, and of course we’ve  to have them, . Come along, Huck, we’ve been in here a long time. It’s getting late, I reckon. I’m hungry, . We’ll eat and smoke when we  to  skiff.” They presently emerged into  clump of sumach bushes, looked warily out, found  coast clear, and were soon lunching and smoking in  skiff. As   dipped toward  horizon they pushed out and  under .  skimmed up  shore through  long twilight, chatting cheerily with Huck, and landed shortly after dark. “, Huck,” said , “we’ll hide  money in  loft of  widow’s woodshed, and I’ll come up in  morning and we’ll count it and divide, and then we’ll hunt up a place out in  woods  it where it will be safe. Just   quiet here and watch  stuff till I  and hook Benny Taylor’s little wagon; I ’t be gone a minute.” He disappeared, and presently returned with  wagon,    small sacks into it, threw some old rags on  of them, and started off, dragging  cargo behind . When  boys reached  Welshman’s house, they stopped to rest. Just as they were about to move on,  Welshman stepped out and said: “Hallo, ’s that?” “Huck and  Sawyer.” “Good! Come along with me, boys,  are keeping everybody waiting. Here—hurry up, trot ahead—I’ll haul  wagon  . , it’s  as light as it might be.  bricks in it?—or old metal?” “Old metal,” said . “I judged so;  boys in this town will take more trouble and fool away more time hunting up  bits’ worth of old iron to sell to  foundry than they would to make twice  money at regular work.  that’s human nature—hurry along, hurry along!”  boys wanted to know what  hurry  about. “Never mind; ’ll , when we  to  Widow Douglas’.” Huck said with some apprehension— he  long used to being falsely accused: “Mr. Jones, we haven’t been doing nothing.”  Welshman laughed. “Well, I ’t know, Huck, my . I ’t know about that. Ain’t  and  widow good friends?” “. Well, ’s  good friends to me, anyway.” “All right, then. What do  want to be afraid ?” This question   entirely answered in Huck’s slow mind before he found himself pushed, along with , into . Douglas’ drawing-room. Mr. Jones left  wagon near  door and followed.  place  grandly lighted, and everybody that  of any consequence in  village  there.  Thatchers were there,  Harpers,  Rogerses, Aunt Polly, , Mary,  minister,  editor, and a great many more, and all dressed in their best.  widow received  boys as heartily as any one could well receive  such looking beings. They were covered with clay and candle-grease. Aunt Polly blushed crimson with humiliation, and frowned and shook  head at . Nobody suffered half as much as   boys , however. Mr. Jones said: “ wasn’t at home, , so I gave  up;  I stumbled on  and Huck right at my door, and so I just brought them along in a hurry.” “And   just right,” said  widow. “Come with me, boys.”  took them to a bedchamber and said: “ wash and dress yourselves. Here are   suits of clothes—shirts, socks, everything complete. They’re Huck’s—no, no thanks, Huck—Mr. Jones bought one and I  other.  they’ll  both of .  into them. We’ll wait—come down when  are slicked up enough.” Then  left. CHAPTER XXXIV HUCK said: “, we  slope, if we  find a rope.  window ain’t high from  ground.” “Shucks! what do  want to slope ?” “Well, I ain’t used to that kind of a crowd. I ’t stand it. I ain’t going down there, .” “Oh, bother! It ain’t anything. I ’t mind it a . I’ll take care of .”  appeared. “,” said he, “auntie  been waiting   all  afternoon. Mary  your Sunday clothes ready, and everybody’s been fretting about . —ain’t this grease and clay, on your clothes?” “, Mr. Siddy,  jist ’tend to your own business. What’s all this blowout about, anyway?” “It’s one of  widow’s parties that ’s always having. This time it’s   Welshman and  sons, on account of that scrape they helped  out of  other night. And —I  tell  something, if  want to know.” “Well, what?” “, old Mr. Jones is going to  to spring something on  people here tonight,  I overheard  tell auntie today about it, as a secret,  I reckon it’s  much of a secret . Everybody knows— widow, ,  all  tries to  on  ’t. Mr. Jones  bound Huck should be here—couldn’t  along with  grand secret without Huck,  know!” “Secret about what, ?” “About Huck tracking  robbers to  widow’s. I reckon Mr. Jones  going to make a grand time over  surprise,  I   it will drop pretty flat.”  chuckled in a very contented and satisfied . “,  it  that told?” “Oh, never mind  it . Somebody told—that’s enough.” “, there’s only one person in this town mean enough to do that, and that’s . If   been in Huck’s place ’d ’a’ sneaked down  hill and never told anybody on  robbers.  ’t do any  mean things, and  ’t bear to  anybody praised  doing good ones. There—no thanks, as  widow says”—and  cuffed ’s ears and helped  to  door with several kicks. “ go and tell auntie if  dare—and tomorrow ’ll catch it!” Some minutes later  widow’s guests were at  supper-table, and a dozen children were propped up at little side-tables in  same room, after  fashion of that country and that . At  proper time Mr. Jones made  little speech, in which he thanked  widow   honor   doing himself and  sons,  said that there  another person whose modesty— And so forth and so on. He sprung  secret about Huck’s share in  adventure in  finest dramatic manner he  master of,   surprise it occasioned  largely counterfeit and  as clamorous and effusive as it might have been under happier circumstances. However,  widow made a pretty fair show of astonishment, and heaped so many compliments and so much gratitude upon Huck that he almost forgot  nearly intolerable discomfort of   clothes in  entirely intolerable discomfort of being  up as a target  everybody’s gaze and everybody’s laudations.  widow said  meant to give Huck a home under  roof and have  educated; and that when  could spare  money  would start  in business in a modest . ’s chance  come. He said: “Huck ’t need it. Huck’s rich.” Nothing  a heavy strain upon  good manners of  company kept back   and proper complimentary laugh at this pleasant joke.   silence  a little awkward.  broke it: “Huck’s  money. Maybe  ’t believe it,  he’s  lots of it. Oh,  needn’t smile—I reckon I  show .  just wait a minute.”   out of doors.  company looked at each other with a perplexed interest—and inquiringly at Huck,   tongue-tied. “, what ails ?” said Aunt Polly. “He—well, there ain’t ever any making of that  out. I never—”  entered, struggling with  weight of  sacks, and Aunt Polly   finish  sentence.  poured  mass of yellow coin upon  table and said: “There—what  I tell ? Half of it’s Huck’s and half of it’s mine!”  spectacle took  general breath away. All gazed, nobody spoke  a moment. Then there  a unanimous call  an explanation.  said he could furnish it, and he .  tale  long,  brimful of interest. There  scarcely an interruption from any one to break  charm of its flow. When he  finished, Mr. Jones said: “I thought I  fixed up a little surprise  this occasion,  it ’t amount to anything . This one makes it sing mighty small, I’m willing to allow.”  money  counted.   amounted to a little over twelve thousand dollars. It  more than any one present  ever seen at one time before, though several persons were there  were worth considerably more than that in property. CHAPTER XXXV  reader  rest satisfied that ’s and Huck’s windfall made a mighty stir in  poor little village of St. Petersburg. So vast a , all in actual cash, seemed next to incredible. It  talked about, gloated over, glorified, until  reason of many of  citizens tottered under  strain of  unhealthy excitement. Every “haunted” house in St. Petersburg and  neighboring villages  dissected, plank by plank, and its foundations  up and ransacked  hidden treasure—and  by boys,  —pretty grave, unromantic , , some of them. Wherever  and Huck appeared they were courted, admired, stared at.  boys were  able to remember that their remarks  possessed weight before;   their sayings were treasured and repeated; everything they  seemed somehow to be regarded as remarkable; they  evidently lost  power of doing and saying commonplace things; moreover, their past history  raked up and discovered to bear marks of conspicuous originality.  village paper published biographical sketches of  boys.  Widow Douglas  Huck’s money out at   cent., and Judge Thatcher   same with ’s at Aunt Polly’s request. Each   an income, , that  simply prodigious—a dollar  every weekday in  year and half of  Sundays. It  just what  minister —no, it  what he  promised—he generally couldn’t collect it. A dollar and a quarter a week would board, lodge, and school a  in those old simple days—and clothe  and wash , ,  that matter. Judge Thatcher  conceived a great opinion of . He said that no commonplace  would ever have   daughter out of  cave. When Becky told  father, in strict confidence,    taken  whipping at school,  Judge  visibly moved; and when  pleaded grace   mighty  which   told in order to shift that whipping from  shoulders to  own,  Judge said with a fine outburst that it  a noble, a generous, a magnanimous —a  that  worthy to hold up its head and march down through history breast to breast with George Washington’s lauded Truth about  hatchet! Becky thought  father  never looked so tall and so superb as when he walked  floor and stamped  foot and said that.  went straight off and told  about it. Judge Thatcher hoped to   a great lawyer or a great soldier some . He said he meant to look to it that  should be admitted to  National Military Academy and afterward trained in  best  school in  country, in order that he might be ready  either career or both. Huck Finn’s wealth and  fact that he   under  Widow Douglas’ protection introduced  into society—no, dragged  into it, hurled  into it—and  sufferings were almost more than he could bear.  widow’s servants kept  clean and neat, combed and brushed, and they bedded  nightly in unsympathetic sheets that   one little spot or stain which he could press to  heart and know  a friend. He  to eat with a knife and fork; he  to use napkin, , and plate; he  to learn  book, he  to go to church; he  to talk so properly that speech  become insipid in  mouth; whithersoever he turned,  bars and shackles of civilization shut  in and bound  hand and foot. He bravely bore  miseries three weeks, and then one  turned up missing.  forty-eight hours  widow hunted   everywhere in great distress.  public were profoundly concerned; they searched high and , they dragged  river   body. Early  third morning  Sawyer wisely went poking among some old empty hogsheads down behind  abandoned slaughter-house, and in one of them he found  refugee. Huck  slept there; he  just breakfasted upon some stolen odds and ends of food, and  lying off, , in comfort, with  pipe. He  unkempt, uncombed, and clad in  same old ruin of rags that  made  picturesque in  days when he  free and happy.  routed  out, told   trouble he  been causing, and urged  to go home. Huck’s face lost its tranquil content, and took a melancholy cast. He said: “’t talk about it, . I’ve tried it, and it ’t work; it ’t work, . It ain’t  me; I ain’t used to it.  widder’s good to me, and friendly;  I ’t stand them ways.  makes me  up just at  same time every morning;  makes me wash, they comb me all to thunder;  ’t  me sleep in  woodshed; I  to wear them blamed clothes that just smothers me, ; they ’t seem to any air  through ’em, somehow; and they’re so rotten nice that I ’t  down,   down,  roll around anywher’s; I hain’t slid on a cellar-door —well, it ’pears to be years; I  to go to church and sweat and sweat—I hate them ornery sermons! I ’t ketch a  in there, I ’t chaw. I  to wear shoes all Sunday.  widder eats by a bell;  goes to  by a bell;  gits up by a bell—everything’s so awful ’ a body ’t stand it.” “Well, everybody does that , Huck.” “, it ’t make no difference. I ain’t everybody, and I ’t stand it. It’s awful to be tied up so. And grub comes  easy—I ’t take no interest in vittles, that . I  to ask to go a-fishing; I  to ask to go in a-swimming—dern’d if I hain’t  to ask to do everything. Well, I’d  to talk so nice it wasn’t no comfort—I’d  to go up in  attic and  out awhile, every , to  a taste in my mouth, or I’d a died, .  widder wouldn’t  me smoke;  wouldn’t  me yell,  wouldn’t  me gape,  stretch,  scratch, before folks—” [Then with a spasm of special irritation and injury]—“And  fetch it,  prayed all  time! I never  such a woman! I  to shove, —I just  to. And besides, that school’s going to open, and I’d a  to go to it—well, I wouldn’t stand that, . Looky-here, , being rich ain’t what it’s cracked up to be. It’s just worry and worry, and sweat and sweat, and a-wishing   dead all  time.  these clothes suits me, and this ’l suits me, and I ain’t ever going to shake ’em any more. , I wouldn’t ever  into all this trouble if it hadn’t ’a’   that money;   just take my sheer of it along with your’n, and gimme a -center sometimes— many times, becuz I ’t give a dern  a thing ’thout it’s tollable hard to —and  go and  off  me with  widder.” “Oh, Huck,  know I ’t do that. ’Tain’t fair; and besides if ’ll  this thing just a while longer ’ll come to like it.” “Like it! —  I’d like a  stove if I  to  on it long enough. No, , I ’t be rich, and I ’t live in them cussed smothery houses. I like  woods, and  river, and hogsheads, and I’ll stick to ’em, . Blame it all! just as we’d  guns, and a cave, and all just fixed to , here this dern foolishness   to come up and spile it all!”    opportunity— “Lookyhere, Huck, being rich ain’t going to keep me back from turning robber.” “No! Oh, good-licks; are  in real dead-wood earnest, ?” “Just as dead earnest as I’m sitting here.  Huck, we ’t   into  gang if  ain’t respectable,  know.” Huck’s   quenched. “’t  me in, ? Didn’t   me go  a pirate?” “,  that’s different. A robber is more high-toned than what a pirate is—as a general thing. In most countries they’re awful high up in  nobility—dukes and such.” “, , hain’t  always  friendly to me?  wouldn’t shet me out, would , ?  wouldn’t do that, , would , ?” “Huck, I wouldn’t want to, and I ’t want to— what would people ? , they’d , ’!  Sawyer’s Gang! pretty  characters in it!’ They’d mean , Huck.  wouldn’t like that, and I wouldn’t.” Huck  silent  some time, engaged in a mental struggle. Finally he said: “Well, I’ll go back to  widder  a month and tackle it and  if I  come to stand it, if ’ll  me b’long to  gang, .” “All right, Huck, it’s a whiz! Come along, old chap, and I’ll ask  widow to  up on  a little, Huck.” “Will , — will ? That’s good. If ’ll  up on some of  roughest things, I’ll smoke private and cuss private, and crowd through or bust. When  going to start  gang and turn robbers?” “Oh, right off. We’ll   boys together and have  initiation tonight, maybe.” “Have  which?” “Have  initiation.” “What’s that?” “It’s to swear to stand by one another, and never tell  gang’s secrets, even if ’re chopped all to flinders, and kill anybody and all  family that hurts one of  gang.” “That’s —that’s mighty , , I tell .” “Well, I  it is. And all that swearing’s  to be done at midnight, in  lonesomest, awfulest place   find—a ha’nted house is  best,  they’re all ripped up .” “Well, midnight’s good, anyway, .” “, so it is. And ’ve  to swear on a coffin, and sign it with blood.” “, that’s something like! , it’s a million times bullier than pirating. I’ll stick to  widder till I , ; and if I  to be a ’ ripper of a robber, and everybody talking ’bout it, I reckon ’ll be proud  snaked me in out of  .” CONCLUSION SO endeth this chronicle. It being strictly a history of a , it must stop here;  story could  go much further without becoming  history of a . When one writes a novel about grown people, he knows exactly where to stop—that is, with a marriage;  when he writes of juveniles, he must stop where he best . Most of  characters that perform in this book still live, and are prosperous and happy. Some  it  seem worth while to take up  story of  younger ones again and  what sort of  and women they turned out to be; therefore it will be wisest  to reveal any of that part of their lives at present. End of  Project Gutenberg Ebook of Adventures of  Sawyer, Complete, by Mark Twain (Samuel Clemens) 